286	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-21	Of course, progressives believe in opening the west's borders to admit millions of working-age people from foreign countries, so maybe that's their solution.	Cannibalism for the climate — that's how far they've gone!Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left.	An aging populace with fewer young people producing tax revenue means a crisis for public services and a shrinking economy.	Don't forget that we all have to stop driving if we want to save the climate, which means we all have to pack ourselves into dense, unaffordable cities instead of living in the suburbs.	Bokhari: Elites Want You to Eat Bugs, Live in Sewer Pipes, and Submit to Population Control Progressive political elites have decided that in order to save the environment, ordinary citizens must submit to radical lifestyle changes (while those same elites fly around the world on private jets and enrich themselves from trade with China, the world's biggest polluter).	This dystopian idea attracted attention recently after Bernie Sanders brought it up at the last Democrat presidential debate, saying people need to be "need to curb population growth." <sep> As left-wing environmentalists remind us, "suburban sprawl" also "contributes significantly to deforestation." <sep> The reality may even be worse than the headline. <sep> 	Bokhari: Elites Want You to Eat Bugs, Live in Sewer Pipes, and Submit to Population Control Progressive political elites have decided that in order to save the environment, ordinary citizens must submit to radical lifestyle changes (while those same elites fly around the world on private jets and enrich themselves from trade with China, the world's biggest polluter). The reality may even be worse than the headline. Not only have progressive environmentalists suggested that we all switch to a diet of bugs instead of meat (especially steak, because cow farts produce carbon dontcha know), one Swedish scientist even suggested we devour the flesh of deceased humans to cut greenhouse emissions. This followed an article published by Newsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism, noting that "philosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger." Cannibalism for the climate — that's how far they've gone!Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left. This dystopian idea attracted attention recently after Bernie Sanders brought it up at the last Democrat presidential debate, saying people need to be "need to curb population growth." But Sanders was merely popularizing an idea that's long been the dream of progressive environmentalists. A 2009 study estimated that every human child will produce, on average, 9,441 metric tons of carbon dioxide. As such, climate scientists were agitating for global population control long before Bernie made his comments. Looks like China, despite its pollution, does have something to offer the environmental movement — the one-child policy!Absent from Bernie's argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what it'll do to the economy and public services, two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about. An aging populace with fewer young people producing tax revenue means a crisis for public services and a shrinking economy. Of course, progressives believe in opening the west's borders to admit millions of working-age people from foreign countries, so maybe that's their solution. Don't forget that we all have to stop driving if we want to save the climate, which means we all have to pack ourselves into dense, unaffordable cities instead of living in the suburbs. As left-wing environmentalists remind us, "suburban sprawl" also "contributes significantly to deforestation." But are there enough affordable homes in the cities?Well, that depends on how you define "a home." Is a recycled sewer pipe a home? The OPod Tube House is the latest "solution" imagined for young people who can't afford a real house or apartment in the city. These "homes" are constructed from recycled industrial piping, and are designed to be stacked on top of each other. If that isn't enough of a dystopian cyberpunk nightmare for you, consider "parasite pods" — small homes designed to be attached to larger structures like skyscrapers and bridges. They're "parasitic" — and we must credit the architectural students who came up with the concept for their refreshingly honest choice of name — because they cling to larger structures. Are you ready to be a parasite, for the environment?Fried insects for lunch, in your parasite pod, single-occupancy of course. Cycle everywhere, unless you want to face crippling carbon taxes. Drink your iced latte with a paper straw, don't have kids, and when you die, remember to donate your human flesh to a local restaurant. Meanwhile, our ruling class continues to fly to climate change summits on private jets, own multiple CO2-emitting homes, and advocate for unrestricted trade with pollution world champ China. Do globalist progressive elites really not know why so many ordinary people hate them?Are you an insider at Google, Facebook, Twitter or any other tech company who wants to confidentially reveal wrongdoing or political bias at your company? Reach out to Allum Bokhari at his secure email address allumbokhari@protonmail. com. Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News.	False
30	nationalreview	right_bias	2019-04-24	e are now facing an existential crisis, the climate crisis and ecological crisis which have never been treated as crises before, they have been ignored for decades," said Greta Thunberg, a Swedish activist, addressing London demonstrators.	Third, to invest and update industry and infrastructure.	Fifth, to end oppression and bring about the redistribution of power.	Since 1990, the country has achieved a 38 percent decrease in carbon dioxide emissions and has reduced its annual emissions by more than 43 percent (this, despite considerable economic growth).	Fourth, to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone.	First, to achieve net zero greenhouse-gas emissions while providing quality jobs for all. <sep> In fact, their demands could be realized only through an immediate economic overhaul by people who have yet to prove their competence. <sep> 'm extremely concerned about the impact that the protests are having on our ability to tackle issues like violent crime if they continue any longer," said Sadiq Khan, London's mayor, who has estimated that around 9,000 police officers have been dispatched to deal with the protesters. <sep> (1) For Britain to declare a "climate and ecological emergency," (2) for Britain to commit to net zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2025, and (3) for a special climate-change "citizens' assembly" to decide future environmental policies. <sep> Second, to guarantee millions of good, high-wage jobs and economic security. <sep> )However, much like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal, the demands of the Extinction Rebellion are risibly overreaching and counterproductive. <sep> 'THIS IS AN EMERGENCY," warns the website of the Extinction Rebellion, a group of climate-change activists whose civil disobedience has included gluing themselves to a train and to Jeremy Corbyn's fence, nailing a pink boat to the ground in Oxford Circus, pouring fake blood outside Downing Street, holding a "die in" at London's Natural History Museum, and camping beneath the city's Marble Arch. <sep> Perhaps this frustration explains why Adam Boulton, a presenter on Sky News, told an Extinction Rebellion organizer, Robin Boardman, on live TV that the protesters come across as "incompetent middle-class, self-indulgent people" trying to "tell us how to live our lives." <sep> The U.K. has also removed coal as a major electricity source.I am sympathetic to the first of their aims: making the environment a political priority and declaring climate change to be a global emergency. <sep> The U.K.'s Version of the Green New Deal Has No Idea What It's Doing The 'Extinction Rebellion' protesters aren't helping their cause. <sep> 	The U.K.'s Version of the Green New Deal Has No Idea What It's Doing The 'Extinction Rebellion' protesters aren't helping their cause.'THIS IS AN EMERGENCY," warns the website of the Extinction Rebellion, a group of climate-change activists whose civil disobedience has included gluing themselves to a train and to Jeremy Corbyn's fence, nailing a pink boat to the ground in Oxford Circus, pouring fake blood outside Downing Street, holding a "die in" at London's Natural History Museum, and camping beneath the city's Marble Arch. What do they want? (1) For Britain to declare a "climate and ecological emergency," (2) for Britain to commit to net zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2025, and (3) for a special climate-change "citizens' assembly" to decide future environmental policies. When do they want it? Now." e are now facing an existential crisis, the climate crisis and ecological crisis which have never been treated as crises before, they have been ignored for decades," said Greta Thunberg, a Swedish activist, addressing London demonstrators. "And for way too long the politicians and the people in power have gotten away with not doing anything." Now, if Ms. Thunberg — who is 16 years old — had been addressing Chinese, American, or Indian protesters, I might have had some sympathy. But to suggest that Britain has "ignored [climate change] for decades" is simply untrue. Since 1990, the country has achieved a 38 percent decrease in carbon dioxide emissions and has reduced its annual emissions by more than 43 percent (this, despite considerable economic growth). While the Paris Agreement sets the aim for net zero carbon dioxide emissions by the year 2050 and net zero greenhouse gases by 2070, Parliament in 2008 introduced the Climate Change Act, which commits the United Kingdom to reducing its annual emissions by at least 80 percent by 2050. The U.K. has also removed coal as a major electricity source.I am sympathetic to the first of their aims: making the environment a political priority and declaring climate change to be a global emergency. (Scientists may not be infallible, but I've seen no credible argument for why they are all wrong in the same way.)However, much like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal, the demands of the Extinction Rebellion are risibly overreaching and counterproductive. In fact, their demands could be realized only through an immediate economic overhaul by people who have yet to prove their competence. Recall the five goals set out in the Green New Deal as part of a ten-year plan. First, to achieve net zero greenhouse-gas emissions while providing quality jobs for all. Second, to guarantee millions of good, high-wage jobs and economic security. Third, to invest and update industry and infrastructure. Fourth, to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone. Fifth, to end oppression and bring about the redistribution of power. Recall, also, the much-criticized supporting FAQ materials produced by Ocasio-Cortez's office. Embarrassing clauses about "farting cows," airplanes, and those "unwilling to work" aside, this document was illuminating because it showed that those who devised the Green New Deal have, in practical terms, no clue what they are doing. The same is true of the Extinction Rebellion. The entire spectacle has been highly disruptive for businesses and law enforcement alone." 'm extremely concerned about the impact that the protests are having on our ability to tackle issues like violent crime if they continue any longer," said Sadiq Khan, London's mayor, who has estimated that around 9,000 police officers have been dispatched to deal with the protesters. The police have made over 1,000 arrests. Perhaps this frustration explains why Adam Boulton, a presenter on Sky News, told an Extinction Rebellion organizer, Robin Boardman, on live TV that the protesters come across as "incompetent middle-class, self-indulgent people" trying to "tell us how to live our lives." Instead of explaining why this perception is wrong, Boardman insisted, with his hand on his heart, that he cared "deeply," before storming off the set. Yes, Boulton was aggressive and accusatory, but so are the tactics of the Extinction Rebellion.	False
559	rt	questionable_source	2018-03-21	eople need jobs, the Gulf Coast states need revenue, and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil."	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale, arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	Critics of the sale fear the expansion in offshore drilling could devastate marine life and lead to roll-backs in environmental protections.	The Center for American Progress, a left-leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement, saying in a statement that "offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources."	ore drilling and less regulation will make the next Deepwater Horizon disaster only a matter of time.		'Next Deepwater Horizon disaster a matter of time': Critics slam record offshore oil lease sale The Trump administration has held the biggest lease sale of oil and gas in US history. Environmentalists fear the auction will massively expand fossil fuel production and could lead to the next Deepwater disaster. President Donald Trump on Wednesday sold more than 77 million acres of federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico for offshore oil drilling, an area twice the size of Florida. The lease sale forms part of the Trump administration's plans to increase domestic energy production by opening up new areas for oil drilling. Oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico became increasingly controversial after the BP Deepwater Horizon disaster in 2010, which killed 11 workers and released millions of barrels of crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico. The catastrophe caused  $17.2 billion-worth of damage to natural resources, according to a study in 2017 commissioned by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Critics of the sale fear the expansion in offshore drilling could devastate marine life and lead to roll-backs in environmental protections. "Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry," said Kristen Monsell, oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity." ore drilling and less regulation will make the next Deepwater Horizon disaster only a matter of time. Whales, dolphins and Gulf seafood are already marinating in oil spills and industry wastewater," she added. The Interior Department said the sell-off is necessary if America is to maintain energy independence. "American energy production can be competitive," said Vincent DeVito, an energy policy advisor at the Interior Department." eople need jobs, the Gulf Coast states need revenue, and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil." he said. The Gulf of Mexico provides the US with around 1.5 million barrels of oil per day, or roughly 17 percent of its national production total, according to the Energy Information Administration. US  crude oil output has grown by more than 20 percent since mid-2016. The oil industry welcomed the lease sale, with Randall Luthi of the trade group National Oceanic Industry Association noting that the sale on Wednesday "may draw more interest from industry than we have seen in recent years." Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale, arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers. The Project on Government Oversight warned in February that the 'uncompetitive' lease system used by the government to auction sites allows energy companies to "secure offshore leases for a pittance." It cautioned that the sale in the Gulf of Mexico means "more publicly owned resources could be turned over to industry at bargain-basement prices." The Center for American Progress, a left-leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement, saying in a statement that "offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources." Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False
833	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-06-02	e can't sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying, especially when you know there's another way."	According to President Trump, clean air and water are exactly the issues that the EPA should be dealing with.	wo hundred thousand people die every year in the U.S. from air pollution, and half of our rivers and streams are too polluted for our health," he says."	He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States."	It deals specifically with reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly carbon dioxide (CO2), with the stated objective of combatting "global warming."	Schwarzenegger goes on to suggest that without the Paris accord, we will face a "dirty energy future with asthma, emphysema and cancer." <sep> Some climate scientists, in fact, have argued that more carbon dioxide, not less, would be beneficial to the environment and to humanity. <sep> But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord. <sep> 	In Embarrassing Anti-Trump Rant, Schwarzenegger Misses the Point of Paris Climate Deal After watching Schwarzenegger's video, in fact, it becomes immediately evident that the actor and former politician has never read the Paris climate accord and has no idea what it says." resident Trump says he's pulling out of the Paris climate agreement. My message to you, Mr. President, is that as a public servant, and especially as a president, your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people," Schwarzenegger begins. He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States." wo hundred thousand people die every year in the U.S. from air pollution, and half of our rivers and streams are too polluted for our health," he says." e can't sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying, especially when you know there's another way." Schwarzenegger goes on to suggest that without the Paris accord, we will face a "dirty energy future with asthma, emphysema and cancer." The trouble is, President Trump would heartily agree with Schwarzenegger's point (while perhaps debating the exact statistics). According to President Trump, clean air and water are exactly the issues that the EPA should be dealing with. But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord. Nowhere does the 25-page agreement deal with battling air pollution or cleaning up rivers and streams. It deals specifically with reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly carbon dioxide (CO2), with the stated objective of combatting "global warming." Carbon dioxide is not a toxic gas. No one is dying from CO2 "air pollution," or from rivers and streams polluted with carbon dioxide. Some climate scientists, in fact, have argued that more carbon dioxide, not less, would be beneficial to the environment and to humanity. Growers regularly pump it into their greenhouses to achieve healthier, heartier plants. Everything Schwarzenegger mentions in his short video—from air pollution to clean water to asthma, emphysema and cancer—is completely unrelated to the President's decision to withdraw from the Paris accord. So maybe the next time he decides to criticize the decision to get the U.S. out of the Paris accord he should read the document first. Meanwhile, he should probably think about terminating that video.	False
162	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-08-22	It declares climate change a national emergency; envisions building new solar, wind and geothermal power sources across the country; and commits $200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal, an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	Mr. Inslee's absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of "climate candidate."	He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan, which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050.	Bernie Sanders's 'Green New Deal': A $16 Trillion Climate Plan WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a $16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change, the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet-warming greenhouse gases.		Bernie Sanders's 'Green New Deal': A $16 Trillion Climate Plan WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a $16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change, the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet-warming greenhouse gases. Mr. Sanders unveiled his proposal one day after Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, who made climate change the central focus of his campaign, announced he was dropping out of the 2020 race. Mr. Inslee's absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of "climate candidate." Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal, an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality. He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan, which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050. It declares climate change a national emergency; envisions building new solar, wind and geothermal power sources across the country; and commits $200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	True
813	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-07-18	efendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earth's climate and sea levels," the complaint states.	The emissions-lowering scheme, the second-largest of its kind in the world, aims to help the state reach its target of cutting planet-warming gases 40% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels."	In a rare show of bipartisan agreement on climate change, eight Republicans joined with Democrats in California's two legislative houses to extend the cap-and-trade emissions system a further 10 years until 2030.	onight, California stood tall and once again, boldly confronted the existential threat of our time," said Jerry Brown, California's governor.	But other climate activists declared themselves pleased with the outcome, pointing out that it showed that action to reduce emissions is bipartisan and popular."	California lawmakers extend program to cut emissions in bipartisan vote California legislators have voted to extend a centerpiece program to cut greenhouse gas emissions, burnishing the state's reputation as a bulwark against Donald Trump's demolition of climate change measures. <sep> Marin and San Mateo counties, along with the City of Imperial Beach, filed a lawsuit in the California superior court to complain that 37 oil, gas and coal companies knew burning their products would increase carbon pollution and cause sea levels rise." <sep> According to the municipalities, these businesses have caused around 20% of all industrial carbon dioxide and methane pollution since the 1960s. <sep> alifornia is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health, economy and future," said Fred Krupp, president of the Environmental Defense Fund. <sep> California's pioneering attitude to climate change action was underlined by separate court action launched on Monday, aimed at holding fossil fuel companies accountable for global warming. <sep> 	California lawmakers extend program to cut emissions in bipartisan vote California legislators have voted to extend a centerpiece program to cut greenhouse gas emissions, burnishing the state's reputation as a bulwark against Donald Trump's demolition of climate change measures. In a rare show of bipartisan agreement on climate change, eight Republicans joined with Democrats in California's two legislative houses to extend the cap-and-trade emissions system a further 10 years until 2030. The emissions-lowering scheme, the second-largest of its kind in the world, aims to help the state reach its target of cutting planet-warming gases 40% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels." onight, California stood tall and once again, boldly confronted the existential threat of our time," said Jerry Brown, California's governor. "Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences, came together and took courageous action. That's what good government looks like." The cap-and-trade program, established in 2006 under then governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, sets a limit on emissions and requires polluters to either reduce their output or purchase permits from those who have. As the limit steadily becomes stricter, it nudges businesses to take the more financially attractive option of cutting their pollution. California, the sixth-largest economy in the world, is in stark opposition to Trump's administration. The president has said he will withdraw the US from the Paris climate agreement and has set about dismantling federal policies that lower emissions. Brown has positioned himself as a countervailing force to Trump, visiting China to talk to its leaders about climate change and promising to build and launch weather-monitoring satellites should federal budget cuts endanger programs handled by Nasa and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOOA)."  lot of you people are going to be alive, and you're going to be alive in a horrible situation," Brown told Californian lawmakers at a committee hearing shortly before the vote. "This isn't for me, I'm going to be dead. This is for you, and it's real." Many Californian Republicans remain opposed to the cap-and-trade system, warning it will pose a "crushing" blow to small businesses. But the bill ended up gaining an unusual level of Republican support, with the extension also supported by key conservative constituencies, including the California Chamber of Commerce and associations representing manufacturers and agriculture interests. Concessions to get some Republican support, such as the limiting of separate regulations on refineries, risked alienating more liberal Democrats. Some environmental groups, including the Sierra Club, attacked the bill for allowing polluters to continue emitting greenhouse gases if they offset them with green projects, including those outside California. But other climate activists declared themselves pleased with the outcome, pointing out that it showed that action to reduce emissions is bipartisan and popular." alifornia is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health, economy and future," said Fred Krupp, president of the Environmental Defense Fund. California's pioneering attitude to climate change action was underlined by separate court action launched on Monday, aimed at holding fossil fuel companies accountable for global warming. Marin and San Mateo counties, along with the City of Imperial Beach, filed a lawsuit in the California superior court to complain that 37 oil, gas and coal companies knew burning their products would increase carbon pollution and cause sea levels rise." efendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earth's climate and sea levels," the complaint states. The municipalities are claiming damages from the fossil fuel firms, echoing a strategy used against the tobacco industry in the 1990s that resulted in multibillion dollar payouts. The companies targeted in the lawsuit include Shell, Exxon Mobile, Chevron and BP. According to the municipalities, these businesses have caused around 20% of all industrial carbon dioxide and methane pollution since the 1960s.	True
315	foxnews	right_bias	2018-09-19	"It's bad, and how we counteract it is with a climate summit, with normal people respecting the truth, and communicating that with other normal people, and combating the President of the United States in what are lies, distortions, and quite frankly, bizarre behavior."	The move rescinds much of a 2016 rule adopted under President Barack Obama that forced energy companies to capture methane, a key contributor to climate change.	It comes a week after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency proposed weakening a similar rule for emissions from public and private lands."	The replacement rule from the Interior Department does not have the same mandates for companies to reduce gas pollution.	We're for clean air and water, but at the same time, we're for reasonable regulations," Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters.		California Gov. Brown on Trump: 'Something's got to happen to this guy... he's going to undermine America' California Gov. Jerry Brown ramped up his criticism of President Trump in an interview that aired Monday – calling the president a "saboteur" in the fight to combat climate change and saying that "something's got to happen to this guy." Speaking to MSNBC's Andrea Mitchell at an environmental summit in San Francisco last week, Brown tore into Trump for the president's controversial tweets about the death toll in Puerto Rico from last year's Hurricane Maria and urged voters to vote for Democrats in November's midterm elections in an effort to  thwart Trump's agenda." e never had a president who was engaged in this kind of behavior," Brown said. "I mean he's not telling the truth; he keeps changing his mind; he's sabotaging the world order in many respects." Brown added: "It's unprecedented, it's dangerous, and hopefully this election is going to send a strong message to the country; the Democrats will win…something's got to happen to this guy, because if we don't get rid of him, he's going to undermine America and even the world." Under Brown, California has become one of the main opponents to the Trump administration's policies on everything from land use to immigration. But there is perhaps no area where California has been more combative against  the White House agenda than the environment." alifornia has positioned itself as the center of the Trump resistance," Jessica Levinson, a clinical law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, told Fox News. "It's bloody combat." Earlier this month, Brown signed two pieces of legislation effectively banning the construction of any new offshore oil and gas pipelines in the state's waters. The new laws are meant to thwart a Trump plan to open nearly 1.7 billion acres of coastal waters to drilling. Shortly before the climate conference began last week, the governor also put his signature on legislation phasing out electricity in the state produced by fossil fuels by 2045." t's really extraordinary that the president can deny science like that," Brown told MSNBC of Trump's questioning the veracity of climate change. "It's bad, and how we counteract it is with a climate summit, with normal people respecting the truth, and communicating that with other normal people, and combating the President of the United States in what are lies, distortions, and quite frankly, bizarre behavior." Brown's criticism of Trump appears to have fallen on deaf ears at the White House, as the administration announced on Tuesday that it was rolling back an Obama-era rule meant to curb climate-changing pollution and easing restrictions on energy companies that allow huge volumes of natural gas to escape after drilling it from U.S. lands. The move rescinds much of a 2016 rule adopted under President Barack Obama that forced energy companies to capture methane, a key contributor to climate change. The replacement rule from the Interior Department does not have the same mandates for companies to reduce gas pollution. It comes a week after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency proposed weakening a similar rule for emissions from public and private lands." We're for clean air and water, but at the same time, we're for reasonable regulations," Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	True
177	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-05-30	Technology could help here, too.	Similar initiatives, aimed at stamping out diseases such as Dengue and Zika, are underway in countries such as Australia, Colombia and China.	Rats are a big problem for the ecosystem of the atoll."	Mosquitoes are not the only pests the Tetiaroa Society is working to eradicate.	But few countries have enjoyed the same level of success as Tetiaroa, where mosquito levels are now so low "the team is simply not catching any wild females anymore", according to Frank Murphy, executive director of the Tetiaroa Society, the non-governmental organisation (NGO) overseeing the sterilisation programme."	Other data, about animals, plants, topography, and so on, will be incorporated, to create a model that could be used to predict how the island might react in different scenarios, from flooding to the introduction of new species." <sep> 	The sea-cooled eco-resort that's nearly mosquito-free The Brando is one of the most luxurious eco-resorts on the planet, nestling on an atoll in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. It's the last place you might think to find pioneering technology. But you'd be surprised. The Brando resort on Tetiaroa - a stunning atoll north of Tahiti - is the epitome of luxurious exclusivity. Two-room bungalows start from €3,700 (£3,200) a night. Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando, who was keen that it should become an ecological haven, it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience-soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet. While some have dismissed the resort as an "island for liberal elites" - Beyoncé and Barack Obama were recent guests - current owner Richard Bailey claims it is close to becoming "carbon neutral and self-sustainable". Electricity at the complex, for example, is generated from solar panels and coconut oil biofuel, while waste water is used for sustainable irrigation. And the resort's cooling system uses a "closed loop heat exchanger" that takes very cold sea water from 900m (2,950ft) below the surface of the Pacific Ocean to cool the fresh water and air circulating round the complex. As the cooling system is powered largely by water pressure, it uses very little energy." It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market, but The Brando proves it is possible," says Prof Graham Miller, who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey. But, of course, visitors to The Brando have to fly to Tahiti first then take another "20-minute flight to paradise", so their carbon footprint is still significant. The well-heeled guests are unlikely to be bitten by mosquitoes either, due to a sterilisation programme that has slashed Tetiaroa's mosquito population by at least 95%. Led by Dr Hervé Bossin of the Institut Louis Malardé, the programme breeds and releases non-biting male mosquitoes infected with a Wolbachia virus that makes wild females - who do bite - sterile. Similar initiatives, aimed at stamping out diseases such as Dengue and Zika, are underway in countries such as Australia, Colombia and China. But few countries have enjoyed the same level of success as Tetiaroa, where mosquito levels are now so low "the team is simply not catching any wild females anymore", according to Frank Murphy, executive director of the Tetiaroa Society, the non-governmental organisation (NGO) overseeing the sterilisation programme." The success of the project recently convinced the local government to fund a much larger breeding facility that could see the programme expand to other Pacific islands," he says. Mosquitoes are not the only pests the Tetiaroa Society is working to eradicate. Rats are a big problem for the ecosystem of the atoll." Rats eat everything from baby turtles to sea birds, and that is bad news for the coral reef too," Mr Murphy says. Technology could help here, too. The team wants to use 2.2m-diameter drones to drop poisonous bait designed to attract rats but not other species. The operation, only the second ever, will be led by Island Conservation, a US NGO that protects endangered species by removing invasive ones." Rats can cause the collapse of the entire terrestrial ecosystem," says Island Conservation's Sally Esposito." In the past, we have used helicopters to spread bait, but we recently used drones for the first time on Seymour Norte in the Galapagos Islands." Tetiaroa is a more difficult environment, so it's a great opportunity to test the drones further, and should help us to create a haven for endangered native species, such as the Polynesian Ground-dove and the Tuamotu Sandpiper." Perhaps the most futuristic project on Tetiaroa is the Island Digital Ecosystem Avatar, which uses light detection and ranging (Lidar) surveys to create a 3D model. Other data, about animals, plants, topography, and so on, will be incorporated, to create a model that could be used to predict how the island might react in different scenarios, from flooding to the introduction of new species." The Lidar surveys give us a 3D representation of the physical contours of the island, including the soils," says Tetiaroa Society scientific director Neil Davies - a senior fellow at the Berkeley Institute for Data Science." It's a bit like putting the island through a scanner." The team's eventual aim is to capture the atoll's whole ecosystem - "from molecule upwards" - so it can help local governments and communities evaluate future risks and make better decisions. Eco-tourism is a growing trend that resorts are seeking to exploit around the world, as people seek to make more responsible choices in the face of climate change. For example, the Parkside Hotel & Spa in Canada, along with The Brando, is one of just a handful of resorts to attain the US Green Building Council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design platinum certification. It has a 290 sq m (3,000 sq ft) vegetated roof, and uses ponds and storm water storage tanks as a heat sink for its air conditioning system. And actor Leonardo DiCaprio, a high-profile environmental campaigner and The Brando regular - is set to open his Blackadore Caye eco-island resort off Belize in 2020. But with tourism contributing around 8% to global greenhouse gas emissions, according to one recent paper published in the scientific journal Nature Climate Change, all resorts will need to become carbon neutral, not just those targeting the world's rich.	True
174	cnbc	left_center_bias	2019-01-02	"We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life."	Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement, expanding drilling on federal lands, and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks.	Those include rolling back methane emissions rules from oil and gas operations and making virtually all federally administered offshore waters available to drillers."	Over the next two years, those actions will face intense scrutiny on Capitol Hill.	Trump's war on energy and environmental regulation is about to face the 'Spanish Inquisition' President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy, climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office.		Trump's war on energy and environmental regulation is about to face the 'Spanish Inquisition' President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy, climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office. Over the next two years, those actions will face intense scrutiny on Capitol Hill. On Thursday, Democrats will take control of the House of Representatives and the committees that conduct government oversight. Within the first few months of the year, incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them. The Trump administration has targeted dozens of rules. Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement, expanding drilling on federal lands, and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks. Rep. Raul Grijalva, the Arizona Democrat tipped to chair the House Natural Resources Committee, says Americans can expect the committee to probe the financial costs and public health risks associated with Interior Department policies under Trump. Those include rolling back methane emissions rules from oil and gas operations and making virtually all federally administered offshore waters available to drillers." The Trump administration has spent two years giving away the store to fossil fuel companies, and Republicans in Congress cheered every step of the way," says Grijalva. "We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life."	True
664	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-04-27	f we have the most industry and we do the most enforcement and get the greatest results, what better way to disembowel the EPA than going after Region 5?"	And in a visit last week to East Chicago, Indiana, which is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil, Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block.	Members of Congress who signed Tuesday's letter underscored the important role the region plays in ensuring a quick response to spills and contamination in the six states, which are criss-crossed with oil and gas pipelines ― spills often near the bulk of the nation's freshwater supply and the Mississippi River waterways.	There are a lot of folks who simply won't do the move.	The Office of Management and Budget also issued a memo in March asking the EPA to propose two regions for elimination.		Closing EPA's Great Lakes Office Would Put Nation's Water At Risk, Dems Warn Scott Pruitt That was the sober but urgent warning from congressional Democrats who on Tuesday penned a letter to EPA head Scott Pruitt urging him to preserve the Great Lakes area office amid rumors it could be shuttered as part of the Trump administration's efforts to slash the EPA's budget." PA Region 5 is critical to protecting the air, drinking water and health of residents in the six Great Lakes states the region serves, and closing its headquarters in Chicago would make EPA less efficient and effective in its efforts to protect human health and the environment," read the letter. And in a visit last week to East Chicago, Indiana, which is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil, Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block. About a month ago, the union got three press calls in the same day asking if it had heard there was announcement Region 5 might be closed. The Office of Management and Budget also issued a memo in March asking the EPA to propose two regions for elimination. Then, two weekends ago, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel issued a statement in support of keeping Region 5 open following reports in the Chicago Sun-Times and Politico that it was on the chopping block." here are about 1,000 people in Region 5 and it has the most industrial regions of all of the EPA," the employee, who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal, told HuffPost. "My question is, 'Why us?' We're a big region in terms of geography. It takes four hours [flying] to get to the edge of the whole region." There are a lot of folks who simply won't do the move. And to be honest, that's why it's being suggested," the employee said. "The Trump administration suggested getting rid of 31 percent of the budget ― about 3,000 employees, which is about 20 percent of the EPA workforce. How are they going to get there? It's a lot easier to combine regions knowing that many of the staff in Region 5 would not want to move to Kansas City." Members of Congress who signed Tuesday's letter underscored the important role the region plays in ensuring a quick response to spills and contamination in the six states, which are criss-crossed with oil and gas pipelines ― spills often near the bulk of the nation's freshwater supply and the Mississippi River waterways. Mikulka, the EPA employees' union president, said shuttering Region 5 would be an effective way to hobble an agency whose mission is largely at odds with the Trump administration's deregulation-oriented, anti-climate-protection stance." f we have the most industry and we do the most enforcement and get the greatest results, what better way to disembowel the EPA than going after Region 5?"	True
743	BBC	left_center_bias	2017-09-19	These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work.	It's just that the most ambitious of the Paris Agreement targets is not as unachievable as many once thought, that there is time to act, though the task remains a monumental one.	But the study authors say: "Pursuing 'efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C' is not chasing a geophysical impossibility".	This type of work necessarily contains uncertainties regarding the way the Earth's climate will respond in future and how quickly societies can move away from fossil fuel use.	The authors themselves are anxious that their research is not misunderstood.	But unlike those figures, which relied on one line of evidence, the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result. <sep> Scientists agree urgent action will be needed to tackle the effects of rapid temperature increase over the next century. <sep> And models designed to come up with very broad potential outcomes for the end of the century may not be fine-tuned enough to give more detailed forecasts year-by-year. <sep> Co-author Michael Grubb, from University College London, said: "This paper shows that the Paris goals are within reach, but clarifies what the commitment to 'pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C' really implies." <sep> The aim of the Paris deal was "holding the increase in global average temperature to well below 2C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit temperature increase to 1.5C." <sep> Those commitments would require strengthening the nationally determined contributions (NDCs) - the pledges to cut emissions contained in the Paris agreement. <sep> To be honest, it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time." <sep> Myles Allen added: "For a two in three chance of keeping temperatures within 1.5C, we'd have to reduce emissions in a straight line to zero from where we are now over the next 40 years." <sep> 	Paris climate aim 'still achievable' The 2015 Paris agreement's ambitious goal of limiting global warming to 1.5C remains within reach, a study suggests. The study is one of several to address the "carbon budget", which - among other things - determines how much CO2 the planet can emit and still reach a given limit for global warming. It indicates the 2015 target, perceived by some as tough, could be met with very stringent emissions cuts. It used computer models that project climate behaviour into the future. The aim of the Paris deal was "holding the increase in global average temperature to well below 2C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit temperature increase to 1.5C." But scientists admit they were taken by surprise by the ambition of the 1.5C figure. The results of the work with computer models have been published in Nature Geoscience. This type of work necessarily contains uncertainties regarding the way the Earth's climate will respond in future and how quickly societies can move away from fossil fuel use. But the study authors say: "Pursuing 'efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C' is not chasing a geophysical impossibility". Co-author Michael Grubb, from University College London, said: "This paper shows that the Paris goals are within reach, but clarifies what the commitment to 'pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C' really implies." Those commitments would require strengthening the nationally determined contributions (NDCs) - the pledges to cut emissions contained in the Paris agreement. Previous estimates of the remaining 1.5C carbon budget based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC) Fifth Assessment of the climate were around four times lower. But unlike those figures, which relied on one line of evidence, the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result. Co-author Prof Pierre Friedlingstein, from the University of Exeter, said: "This is very good news for the achievability of the Paris targets." Prof Myles Allen, another author from the University of Oxford, told BBC News: "In the main body of the IPCC assessment, what it would take to meet a 1.5C goal wasn't assessed in any detail. To be honest, it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time." Perhaps it should have been, but that was the view of the academic community then. But the ambition of Paris caught a lot of people by surprise." The climate models are exaggerating. The predictions are too alarmist. The Tuvaluans and other islanders are safer than we thought. These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work. In reality, nothing is quite that straightforward. The models are simulated approximations of possible futures. Inevitably they are going to be at least slightly adrift of reality, either in the amount of warming or its timing. They come with caveats and margins of error. In many ways, it's remarkable that these computer constructs are even roughly on track. And models designed to come up with very broad potential outcomes for the end of the century may not be fine-tuned enough to give more detailed forecasts year-by-year. The authors themselves are anxious that their research is not misunderstood. The need for urgent action to reduce emissions is unchanged, they say. It's just that the most ambitious of the Paris Agreement targets is not as unachievable as many once thought, that there is time to act, though the task remains a monumental one. Myles Allen added: "For a two in three chance of keeping temperatures within 1.5C, we'd have to reduce emissions in a straight line to zero from where we are now over the next 40 years." It's possible, but extremely challenging. So if people are saying: can we now relax? That's not the right message to take at all." Scientists agree urgent action will be needed to tackle the effects of rapid temperature increase over the next century. But a study earlier this year suggested the allowable carbon budget had probably been overestimated. It said the "pre-industrial baseline" used to benchmark present day warming was probably older than the IPCC had assumed. Therefore, the degree of warming since that baseline was probably greater than had been believed. On Twitter, one of the authors of that report, Prof Michael Mann, said the latest research in Nature Geoscience, "doesn't account for [the] pre-industrial baseline issue we examined". He added: "There is some debate about [the] precise amount of committed warming if we cease emitting carbon immediately. We're probably very close to 1.5C." Meanwhile, another study in Nature Geoscience, by Gunnar Myhre, from the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research, in Oslo, and colleagues, suggests the greenhouse effect caused by human-induced CO2 emissions is now half-way to doubling compared with pre-industrial conditions. Although the concentrations themselves have not yet reached the halfway mark, this is being described as an iconic watermark.	True
520	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2018-05-02	The only way we're going to overcome that is by reducing emissions," Gov.	Pollutants coming out of vehicles, out of the tailpipe, does permanent lung damage to children living near well-traveled roads and freeways.	The world is not flat, pollution is not free, and the health and safety of our children is not for sale," said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra, standing alongside the governor.	Pruitt, who has sought to block or delay an array of environmental regulations, has argued that assumptions about gas prices and vehicle technology used by the Obama administration to set the standards were too optimistic.	At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions.		California, 16 other states sue EPA over auto emissions rollbacks California and 16 other states sued the Trump administration Tuesday over its plan to scrap Obama-era auto-emissions standards that would require vehicles to get significantly higher gas mileage by 2025. At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions. Under those rules, vehicles would have to get 36 miles of real-world driving per gallon, about 10 miles over the existing standard." Pollutants coming out of vehicles, out of the tailpipe, does permanent lung damage to children living near well-traveled roads and freeways. This is a fact. The only way we're going to overcome that is by reducing emissions," Gov. Jerry Brown said in announcing the lawsuit along with other top California Democrats. The rules were set six years ago when California and the Obama administration agreed to a single nationwide fuel economy standard. Pruitt, who has sought to block or delay an array of environmental regulations, has argued that assumptions about gas prices and vehicle technology used by the Obama administration to set the standards were too optimistic. And he said the standards would hurt automakers and consumers who can't afford or don't want to buy more fuel-efficient vehicles. Automakers have likewise argued that the Obama-era rules would cost the industry billions of dollars and raise vehicle prices because of the cost of developing the necessary technology. EPA representatives did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment on the lawsuit. California officials say the standards are achievable and the EPA's effort to repeal them is not based on any new research. They argue the plan violates the federal Clean Air Act and didn't follow the agency's own regulations. California has a unique waiver that allows it to set its own tailpipe emissions standards for vehicles, which it has used to combat smog and, more recently, global warming. Thirteen other states and the District of Columbia have adopted the California standards as their own. California has now sued the Trump administration more than 30 times on topics including immigration and health care policy." The world is not flat, pollution is not free, and the health and safety of our children is not for sale," said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra, standing alongside the governor. Brown, who has made fighting climate change a core of his policy and political platform, said the state's battles with Washington over climate are the most essential." If we follow the Pruitt-Trump path, we follow our way off the cliff to disaster," he said. The lawsuit was filed in the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Joining California were Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Virginia and the District of Columbia. All have Democratic attorneys general.	True
524	usatoday	left_center_bias	2018-12-11	Over the decades, disputes arose over the government's changing definition of "navigable" with opponents complaining the definition was too broad.	Additionally, groundwater would not be federally protected, an exclusion Wheeler said that was never supposed to be included.	"By removing safeguards and allowing industry to dump pollutants into these water sources, Trump's EPA is ensuring more contamination challenges for utilities and dirtier water for their customers."	Environmental advocates warn the proposed rule could remove pollution and development protections from most U.S. waterways and pose far-reaching effects on the safety of the nation's tap water for more than 100 million Americans."	But EPA officials also could not say what percentage would lose those protections.	The issue has often come down to the definition of "navigable waters" under the Clean Water Act. <sep> he old rule put Washington in control of ponds, puddles, and prairie potholes," said Wyoming GOP Sen. Tom Barrasso, who chairs the Environment and Public Works Committee. <sep> The crux of the rollback is a change in how "navigable waterways" are defined under the Clean Water Act. <sep> 	Trump EPA takes aim at Obama-era clean water rules, prompting outcry from environmentalists WASHINGTON – The Trump administration is moving forward with a significant rollback of an Obama-era clean water regulation that has become a rallying cry for farmers and property-rights activists opposed to federal overreach. The new proposal, unveiled Tuesday morning by acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler and other administration officials, would ease Washington's oversight of small bodies of water, undoing a regulation President Donald Trump has called "a massive power grab." The new rule would replace an Obama administration regulation, known as the "Waters of the United States" rule that expanded federal protections to smaller rivers and streams. Environmental advocates warn the proposed rule could remove pollution and development protections from most U.S. waterways and pose far-reaching effects on the safety of the nation's tap water for more than 100 million Americans." ven a child understands that small streams flow into large streams and lakes – which provide drinking water for so many Americans," said Craig Cox, senior vice president for agriculture and natural resources for the Environmental Working Group. "By removing safeguards and allowing industry to dump pollutants into these water sources, Trump's EPA is ensuring more contamination challenges for utilities and dirtier water for their customers." But opponents of the Obama-era WOTUS rule say it unduly prevents property owners from being able to fully use their land because the rule's overly broad definition regulates ditches that temporarily flood as federally protected waterways." he old rule put Washington in control of ponds, puddles, and prairie potholes," said Wyoming GOP Sen. Tom Barrasso, who chairs the Environment and Public Works Committee. "The regulation was so confusing that property owners and businesses could not determine when permits were needed." The crux of the rollback is a change in how "navigable waterways" are defined under the Clean Water Act. The 2015 definition crafted under President Barack Obama would narrow considerably under Trump, a move that Wheeler told reporters would make it "clearer and easier to understand ... that will result in significant cost savings, protect the nation's navigable waterways, and reduce barriers to important economic and environmental projects." Wheeler cited the Missouri Farm Bureau, which launched a "Ditch the Rule" campaign opposing the 2015 proposal because it was concerned the Obama-era definition was so broad it could apply to almost every acre in the state. The Obama administration "claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power, power in the hands of the federal government over landowners," Wheeler said. It's also confusing because the rule is enforced in only 22 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories. Under Trump's proposed rule, federal protections would remain for major waterways, rivers, tributaries, wetlands adjacent to federally protected waterways, certain lakes and ponds, reservoirs, and ditches used for navigation or affected by the tide. States would oversee most ditches, terrain that fills with water during or in response to rainfall, certain wetlands that have been used to grow crops, stormwater control ponds, and water and wastewater treatment systems. Additionally, groundwater would not be federally protected, an exclusion Wheeler said that was never supposed to be included. Wheeler disputed claims by environmental groups that the rule would remove federal oversight from at least 60 percent of the nation's waterways. But EPA officials also could not say what percentage would lose those protections. Delaware Sen. Tom Carper, the top Democrat on the Environment and Public Works Committee, said the rollback would send the country back to a time when environmental protections were few and far between." Back then, the Cuyahoga River in Cleveland, Ohio, was so polluted that it actually caught on fire. Polluters were allowed to dump toxic waste into our waterways without consequence. Garbage littered our shores," Carper said. "It isn't just a coincidence that this is no longer the reality in our country." In one of his first acts as president, Trump signed an executive order in February 2017 to undo the clean water rule and instructed the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to come up with a new approach. In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time, Trump called the rule "one of the worst examples of federal regulation." The debate over the water rule was part of a larger political flashpoint over environmental issues during the 2016 presidential campaign as Trump tried to appeal to rural Americans exasperated by federal regulations and the loss of property rights. While the broader debate centered on climate change and clean air rules, the waters rule was nearly as polarizing because its broad application could affect farming, construction and other activities near federally regulated waters. The issue has often come down to the definition of "navigable waters" under the Clean Water Act. The Clean Water Act of 1972 makes it illegal to pollute "navigable" waters. Over the decades, disputes arose over the government's changing definition of "navigable" with opponents complaining the definition was too broad. Two Supreme Court decisions in 2001 and 2006 came down on the side of landowners, ruling that ponds at the bottom of a gravel pit and a marsh miles from any lake or river were not navigable and thus not subject to the act. Wheeler said he wants the rule to reflect the court rulings. More: President Trump on dire economic forecast of climate change report: 'I don't believe it'More: Once Democrats take charge of the House, addressing climate change will become top priority again	False
685	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-04-22	Once again, the biggest hurdle in battling climate change isn't the existence of feasible solutions – those already exist.	The problem, at least in the United States, is Republicans in Congress and now the White House – especially Trump, who believes climates change is a hoax – who continue to deny that the climate crisis is happening in the first place, despite the overwhelming evidence.	Nye said that solutions to battling climate change are realistic and doable if the United States simply puts resources toward the effort and decides to act."	This is all in the U.S. Constitution … That's what enables innovation, and if our country stops innovating, it will not be able to compete worldwide.	And my interpretation of the expression 'useful arts' is engineering.		Bill Nye Brilliantly Quotes The Constitution To Prove That Trump Must Act On Climate Change As thousands of activists and scientists around the world gather to March for Science, Bill Nye has a U.S. Constitution lesson for Donald Trump that proves he must advance scientific causes. In an interview on MSNBC's AM Joy, Nye said that it explicitly states in the Constitution that the U.S. government must "promote the progress of science and useful arts," something the Trump administration isn't even close to upholding. Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration:I just want to remind the administration that science is political. It is inherently political like everything else … It's in the U.S. Constitution, Article 1, Section 8, to promote the progress of science and useful arts. And my interpretation of the expression 'useful arts' is engineering. In those days, it would be architecture, city planning, designing of the drainage systems, sewage systems, and communications systems. This is all in the U.S. Constitution … That's what enables innovation, and if our country stops innovating, it will not be able to compete worldwide. Nye said that solutions to battling climate change are realistic and doable if the United States simply puts resources toward the effort and decides to act." e could get to 80 percent renewables in the next 15 years, we could 100 percent renewable in the next 30 years and we wouldn't have to have a military on the other side of the world protecting oil fields so that we could get our fossil fuels here in North America," he said. Once again, the biggest hurdle in battling climate change isn't the existence of feasible solutions – those already exist. The problem, at least in the United States, is Republicans in Congress and now the White House – especially Trump, who believes climates change is a hoax – who continue to deny that the climate crisis is happening in the first place, despite the overwhelming evidence. Donald Trump isn't just shirking his constitutional responsibility to advance scientific innovation, but he's putting at risk the only planet we have.	True
630	NewsBusters	right_bias	2017-09-13	Climate change, he [Bast] says, is a naturally occurring cyclical phenomenon caused mostly by the sun, not an approaching disaster accelerated by carbon dioxide emissions caused by humans."	Right now, there are less than seventy-five thousand coal jobs, compared to more than six hundred and fifty thousand in renewable energy, which can be less expensive to produce."	The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism.	In their pursuit of this agenda, the broadcast networks' have heavily criticized the Trump administration's policies on the environment.	NBC Nightly News correspondent Matt Bradley's July 30 quip that "President Donald Trump shifts American climate commitments into reverse" was typical of the media attitude towards the president's environmental policies.		86 Percent Negative: Media Scold Trump on Climate, Cite 'World of Opposition' The twin disasters of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showcased once again the media's reflex to use such tragedies to push for liberal climate change policies.  In their pursuit of this agenda, the broadcast networks' have heavily criticized the Trump administration's policies on the environment. From January 20 through August 31, MRC analysts tallied 75 stories discussing the President and climate change, totaling 73 minutes, 43 seconds of network airtime.  The commentary in these stories was as one-sided as the rest of Trump's coverage has been, with 88 percent of evaluative statements criticizing the President, vs. a mere 12 percent that praised him. Methodology: Our measure of spin was designed to isolate the networks' own slant, not the back-and-forth of partisan politics. Thus, our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line (Republicans supporting Trump, Democrats criticizing him), and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story, such as statements from experts presented as non-partisan, voters, or opinionated statements from the networks' own reporters. Using these criteria, MRC analysts tallied 121 evaluative statements about the Trump administration's approach to the environment from January 20 to August 31, 2017, of which 106 (88%) were negative vs. a mere 15 (12%) which were positive. This study does not look at all climate change-related stories during this time frame. Instead, it covers specifically the coverage of President Trump's environmental agenda on ABC World News Tonight, CBS Evening News and NBC Nightly News. The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism. NBC Nightly News correspondent Matt Bradley's July 30 quip that "President Donald Trump shifts American climate commitments into reverse" was typical of the media attitude towards the president's environmental policies. On June 2, Nightly News correspondent Kristen Welker promoted an anti-Trump protest over this decision, hyping "the backlash is only heating up." The same night, CBS Evening News's anchor Anthony Mason spoke of the "world of opposition to withdraw from the Paris climate accord." Correspondent Chip Reid echoed by referencing "worldwide condemnation." NBC Nightly News, anchor Savannah Guthrie on June 1 criticized the move to withdraw from the climate treaty: "detractors say it is a stunning abandonment of the U.S.'s leadership in the world, and a grave threat to the planet itself." To their credit, CBS stood alone in interviewing a conservative to hear the other side of the climate change debate. On April 22, CBS Evening News, correspondent Dean Reynolds noted that Joe Bast, CEO of The Heartland Institute, "looks with approval on Mr. Trump's decision to roll back regulations limiting greenhouse gases, and to his appointments of fellow skeptics in the administration. Climate change, he [Bast] says, is a naturally occurring cyclical phenomenon caused mostly by the sun, not an approaching disaster accelerated by carbon dioxide emissions caused by humans." However, before stating this position, Reynolds noted that "most climate scientists, the United Nations, as well as NASA, dismiss these arguments as propaganda for fossil fuels. On March 28 NBC Nightly News profiled "celebrations in coal country" over Trump's environmental proposals, mentioning a barber shop in West Virginia where "they cheered the move, hoping it will bring back jobs." Afterwards, correspondent Kristen Welker noted that "federal data shows mines have been losing jobs for decades under both parties. Right now, there are less than seventy-five thousand coal jobs, compared to more than six hundred and fifty thousand in renewable energy, which can be less expensive to produce."	False
0	redstate	right_bias	2019-12-02	Perhaps that's why climate change isn't powerful enough: "Change" sounds so neutral.	What's the takeaway from all this?Not that climate change is going to end the world.	These options are subtle brand shifts from "global warming," yet they deliver a more negative image.	He said that the new name needs to appeal to people who are unscientific to help them understand the severity of the problem and "inspire them to make more eco-friendly life choices and pro-climate choices at the ballot box."	They refer to a tipping point that we're catapulting toward and must find a way to avert.	This complex scientific concept is extremely well-known today because a better, more tangible term was applied to it. <sep> Then when they figured out that they couldn't accurately predict which way it was going to go, they settled on "climate change." <sep> Climate Alarmists Want to Rebrand "Climate Change" to Something More Panic Inducing First, it was "global warming" and/or "global cooling." <sep> Hall gives an honorable mention to these as well:Emission Critical: Focuses on the action we need to take: reducing emissions. <sep> The Great Collapse: The collapse of ecosystems, economies and our way of life. <sep> However, there's nothing neutral about collapse or chaos. <sep> An article by Aaron Hall in AdAge asked the question of whether or not people will be more apt to fall in line with the climate alarmists if they take out the neutral-sounding "climate change" and replace it with something you might hear Chicken Little screaming:Scientific terms often fail to resonate in meaningful ways. <sep> If we don't take massive action now, Earth will be uninhabitable — an irreversible barren wasteland. <sep> As glaciers melt and disappear, so does our way of life. <sep> 	Climate Alarmists Want to Rebrand "Climate Change" to Something More Panic Inducing First, it was "global warming" and/or "global cooling." Then when they figured out that they couldn't accurately predict which way it was going to go, they settled on "climate change." Apparently, that phrase just doesn't have the oomph it once did, and the church of climate change wants to rebrand their apocalypse to make people far more scared and subsequently, obedient. An article by Aaron Hall in AdAge asked the question of whether or not people will be more apt to fall in line with the climate alarmists if they take out the neutral-sounding "climate change" and replace it with something you might hear Chicken Little screaming:Scientific terms often fail to resonate in meaningful ways. In the early 1900s, for example, no one had heard of the "hypothesis of the primeval atom." That changed in the 1940s when the term "Big Bang" was coined, which was a simpler, more relatable concept for the masses. This complex scientific concept is extremely well-known today because a better, more tangible term was applied to it. Can we use lessons from the naming of the Big Bang to rebrand "climate change?"Interestingly, Hall notes that politicians liked "global warming" because it sounded dynamic and scary, but since it was "too easy to poke holes in" they decided to move on to climate change. People began joking about wanting global warming whenever it got too cold outside and the politicians, much like the devil himself, can't stand it when people laugh at them. Hall, being a "professional namer," wondered allowed about whether or not people would take the church of climate change more seriously if he renamed it to sound scarier. He said that the new name needs to appeal to people who are unscientific to help them understand the severity of the problem and "inspire them to make more eco-friendly life choices and pro-climate choices at the ballot box." In other words, it needs to scare people into voting Democrat. What did his team of global namers come up with? A bunch of names that sound like bad B-Movie titles. These options are subtle brand shifts from "global warming," yet they deliver a more negative image. The names signal that ice caps are melting, but also create a more visceral image in the mind — that real feeling of "melting" when it's too hot outside. A meltdown is a disastrous event that draws from the ultimate terror of a nuclear meltdown, an apt metaphor for global destruction. In naming, we call metaphorical names "suggestive names," and they are one of the most popular types of names. Good brand names instill a clear message or even a direct call to action. Perhaps that's why climate change isn't powerful enough: "Change" sounds so neutral. However, there's nothing neutral about collapse or chaos. Both are states of events that you absolutely want to avoid. They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos. They both also use alliteration — using the same letter or sound at the beginning of connected words — a naming trick proven to enhance memorability. Arresting brand names often capitalize on vivid visual associations. They refer to a tipping point that we're catapulting toward and must find a way to avert. Because a boiling point is the point at which liquid vaporizes, it brings forth imagery of rivers, lakes and oceans boiling and disappearing. "Melting Point" paints a clear picture of solid matter melting. As glaciers melt and disappear, so does our way of life. It's time to take the gloves off and stop pretending. Sometimes a brand name needs to be hyperbolic to truly capture hearts and minds. If we don't take massive action now, Earth will be uninhabitable — an irreversible barren wasteland. Plants and animals will die. Humans won't be able to survive extreme weather like floods, droughts and fires. If we don't change, we won't even be able to spend time outside. "Scorched Earth" paints the direst picture of what's to come and what we must avoid and is likely the edgiest brand name from our exploration. Those were just the winners. Hall gives an honorable mention to these as well:Emission Critical: Focuses on the action we need to take: reducing emissions. Pre-Extinction: Powerful and suggests another mass extinction is imminent if we do not change our ways today. The Great Collapse: The collapse of ecosystems, economies and our way of life. Earthshattering: Creatively arresting — the complete destruction of the Earth as we know it. What's the takeaway from all this?Not that climate change is going to end the world. It's not. No real scientific data points to that fact. The takeaway here is that there are actually people out there trying to worry you into obedience and support for a leftist agenda, and in order to do that they're willing to play with your brain by changing up the words they use. As you see above, Hall even admits that they're willing to get hyperbolic in order to make you scared.	False
317	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-08-31	very time there is a disaster, politicians, journalists, and scientists unfailingly spring to life to tell us that the disaster and the costs and suffering that accompanied it were associated with, linked to, or even caused by climate change," Pielke wrote in his newly updated book."	But the most thorough scientific assessments show no increasing trends in global frequency or intensity for many types of disasters, including hurricanes, floods, droughts and wildfires."	The Times claimed the NCA showed how "every part of the country has been touched by warming, from droughts in the Southeast to flooding in the Midwest to a worrying rise in air and ground temperatures in Alaska, and conditions will continue to worsen."	)Pielke's motivation in releasing an updated version of his book, initially published in 2014, was he saw the issue of extreme weather become "politicized."	The newest version of the book "The Rightful Place of Science: Disasters & Climate Change," by University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr., takes on the often false claims peddled in the media about global warming and disasters, from hurricanes to floods to droughts."	Now, journalists and politicians are tying every weather event to man-made warming, despite the lack of scientific evidence. <sep> "While this is often extremely frustrating, I remain committed to doing the best job I can analyzing data on climate and disasters in ways that are transparent and grounded in evidence." <sep> However, Pielke has paid a price for pointing out inconvenient truths about extreme weather and global warming. <sep> 'Almost Always False': Book Debunks Activist Spin On Natural Disasters And Global Warming Statements from activists and politicians linking natural disasters to man-made global warming "are almost always false," according to a book debunking misinformation about climate science. <sep> 	'Almost Always False': Book Debunks Activist Spin On Natural Disasters And Global Warming Statements from activists and politicians linking natural disasters to man-made global warming "are almost always false," according to a book debunking misinformation about climate science. The newest version of the book "The Rightful Place of Science: Disasters & Climate Change," by University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr., takes on the often false claims peddled in the media about global warming and disasters, from hurricanes to floods to droughts." very time there is a disaster, politicians, journalists, and scientists unfailingly spring to life to tell us that the disaster and the costs and suffering that accompanied it were associated with, linked to, or even caused by climate change," Pielke wrote in his newly updated book." uch statements, as I'll show in this book, are almost always false," he wrote. While no skeptic of man-made warming, Pielke painstakingly goes through peer-reviewed scientific assessments, separating the science from the media spin when it comes to natural disasters. (RELATED: Dan Rather Claims That Global Warming 'Rarely Tops The Headlines.' Is That True?)Pielke's motivation in releasing an updated version of his book, initially published in 2014, was he saw the issue of extreme weather become "politicized." Now, journalists and politicians are tying every weather event to man-made warming, despite the lack of scientific evidence. For example, The New Republic's Emily Atkin recently called for journalists to put every weather event in the context of global warming. Her call even got a reaction from NPR, which defended its reporting but was sympathetic to her message. Popular figures, like Bill Nye the "Science Guy" and former Vice President Al Gore, routinely link natural disasters to global warming. California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown blamed the intense wildfires in his state on a "new normal" from a warming climate. But the most thorough scientific assessments show no increasing trends in global frequency or intensity for many types of disasters, including hurricanes, floods, droughts and wildfires." hile political spin doctors often find ways to parse language and statistics to say things that are plausibly defensible but which are ultimately misleading or just wrong, for me such misrepresentations have gone too far in an area where I have some considerable expertise," Pielke wrote." he willingness of some in the media and the scientific community to offer false or misleading claims does not offer a route to scientific integrity," Pielke wrote. Pielke gives many examples of this, including The New York Times' hyping of the National Climate Assessment (NCA) special report released in 2017. The Times claimed the NCA showed how "every part of the country has been touched by warming, from droughts in the Southeast to flooding in the Midwest to a worrying rise in air and ground temperatures in Alaska, and conditions will continue to worsen." The article went on to quote Penn State University's Michael Mann to bolster its claim. But Pielke was quick to point how the NCA did not support The Times' sweeping claims about warming. Anyone "claiming that new US climate report supports attributing trends in extremes to human causes is just wrong," Pielke said at the time. However, Pielke has paid a price for pointing out inconvenient truths about extreme weather and global warming. Pielke's career been targeted by Democratic lawmakers and activist journalists to impress a billionaire donor." his stance has ultimately led me to being systematically attacked any time I make a public statement about climate change, in effect railroading me out of the climate debate as an unwelcome voice," Pielke wrote. "While this is often extremely frustrating, I remain committed to doing the best job I can analyzing data on climate and disasters in ways that are transparent and grounded in evidence."	False
719	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-06-28	"In climate science unresolved questions remain ― issues that currently lack conclusive evidence.	However, there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence.	His response is in stark contrast to overwhelming scientific consensus based on facts, which says human activity, specifically greenhouse gas emissions, is the primary driver of global warming.	While man is "having an effect" on climate, he said, "most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in."	The American Meteorological Society skewered Perry for his comments, saying in a letter last week that he lacked a "fundamental understanding of the science" behind climate change.		'You Are A Climate Denier': Protesters Interrupt Rick Perry's Speech At Energy Conference Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday. Instead, he opted to tell one "young lady" to "sit down," and said it's "OK … [to] be skeptical about information." You are a climate denier," said the first demonstrator, as members of the audience booed and called for her to "sit down" and to "get her out of here." In an attempt to defuse the tense moment, Perry described the protester as "one of the more interesting EIA employees," prompting laughter from the audience. Undeterred, the protester kept shouting questions at Perry, who then told her: "If you'll sit down, young lady … I'll finish my remarks." Answer my question, why will you not say that climate change is caused by carbon dioxide?" she pressed. Perry was referring to remarks he made during an interview last week with CNBC "Squawk Box." Perry told host Joe Kernan that carbon dioxide was not "the primary control knob" for climate change. While man is "having an effect" on climate, he said, "most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in." His response is in stark contrast to overwhelming scientific consensus based on facts, which says human activity, specifically greenhouse gas emissions, is the primary driver of global warming. The American Meteorological Society skewered Perry for his comments, saying in a letter last week that he lacked a "fundamental understanding of the science" behind climate change. During his EIA conference speech on Tuesday, Perry was interrupted a second time by a protester, who also called him a "climate denier." I think it's OK for us to ask questions and be skeptical about information," Perry said in response, according to a E&E News report of the event.″[S]kepticism and debate are always welcome and are critically important to the advancement of science," the letter said. "In climate science unresolved questions remain ― issues that currently lack conclusive evidence. However, there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence. Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue." Later on Tuesday, Perry was quizzed about climate change again during a White House press briefing, arranged as part of the Trump administration's "Energy Week." When asked if President Donald Trump believes in climate change, Perry responded "I have not had that conversation with him" ― joining a growing list of officials who have refused to comment on the commander in chief's position on this critical issue.	False
128	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-03-22	"Very few of the problems that we have right now related to water are going to be made better by climate change.	Very few of the problems that we have right now related to water are going to be made better by climate change.	Pruitt said that it wasn't a lack of money that was plaguing the program, but rather "poor leadership" and "poor focus" on the part of the Obama administration.	The Trump Team And The Problem That Shall Not Be Named "Most of the threats from climate change are 50 to 75 years out," Wheeler asserted, adding that the world should be "focused on the people who are dying today, the thousand children that die every day from lack of drinking water."	Droughts (which are made worse by climate change) lead to water shortages, while inland and coastal flooding can contaminate drinking water supplies.	Let's put aside the fact that climate change is not some distant challenge but one already wreaking havoc on communities around the globe — and that Wheeler has proposed gutting existing regulations that protect drinking water. <sep> Climate change is a multiplier. <sep> Superfund experts have said the administration's approach highlights its lack of understanding about how the program functions. <sep> Early in his tenure, former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt prioritized fixing Superfund, the struggling and financially strapped program responsible for cleaning up the nation's most contaminated sites. <sep> Superfund's problems have almost everything to do with resources, which have all but dried up over the last two decades. <sep> It's the biggest threat of all. <sep> He emphasized the need for better forest management by pointing to the more than 120 million dead trees in California but failed to mention that the trees died because of a multi-year drought that scientists have concluded was made worse by anthropogenic climate change. <sep> When a reporter later pressed him outside the White House, Zinke said that "of course" climate change is a factor in the California fires ― a rather unconvincing acknowledgment, considering previous remarks and the number of times Zinke cast doubt on the all-but-irrefutable body of scientific research that shows human carbon emissions are driving global climate change. <sep> It's unsurprising that Wheeler is calling for a massive mobilization to tackle water woes without acknowledging the climate change link, considering the administration's relentless push to boost domestic fossil fuel production. <sep> And in an interview with Fox Business after returning to Washington, D.C., Zinke said whether climate change is contributing to the infernos is "irrelevant to what's occurred." <sep> EPA maintains that Superfund is a "top priority" and that it "is making great strides in accelerating sites through remediation and back to productive use." <sep> The report details how rising temperatures and variable precipitation can have "cascading effects on water quality," increasing the risk of drought, pollutant runoff and harmful algal blooms." <sep> There's no denying the magnitude of the water crisis in the U.S. and abroad. <sep> Last year's Fourth National Climate Assessment, the work of hundreds of scientists at more than a dozen federal agencies ― including the EPA ― documents significant changes in water quality and quantity across the country and warns that "water security in the United States is increasingly in jeopardy." <sep> limate change is a multiplier," Caldas said. <sep> Under the current climate change scenario, nearly half the global population will be living in areas of high water stress by 2030, according to the United Nations, which warns that "water is the primary medium through which we will feel the effects of climate change." <sep> It's absurd to act like planetary warming isn't a significant threat to the world's freshwater resources. <sep> 	The Trump Team And The Problem That Shall Not Be Named "Most of the threats from climate change are 50 to 75 years out," Wheeler asserted, adding that the world should be "focused on the people who are dying today, the thousand children that die every day from lack of drinking water." Let's put aside the fact that climate change is not some distant challenge but one already wreaking havoc on communities around the globe — and that Wheeler has proposed gutting existing regulations that protect drinking water. It's absurd to act like planetary warming isn't a significant threat to the world's freshwater resources. It's the biggest threat of all. Climate change is a multiplier. Very few of the problems that we have right now related to water are going to be made better by climate change. That's not going to happen. There's no denying the magnitude of the water crisis in the U.S. and abroad. Droughts (which are made worse by climate change) lead to water shortages, while inland and coastal flooding can contaminate drinking water supplies. Under the current climate change scenario, nearly half the global population will be living in areas of high water stress by 2030, according to the United Nations, which warns that "water is the primary medium through which we will feel the effects of climate change." Last year's Fourth National Climate Assessment, the work of hundreds of scientists at more than a dozen federal agencies ― including the EPA ― documents significant changes in water quality and quantity across the country and warns that "water security in the United States is increasingly in jeopardy." The report details how rising temperatures and variable precipitation can have "cascading effects on water quality," increasing the risk of drought, pollutant runoff and harmful algal blooms." limate change is a multiplier," Caldas said. "Very few of the problems that we have right now related to water are going to be made better by climate change. That's not going to happen." It's unsurprising that Wheeler is calling for a massive mobilization to tackle water woes without acknowledging the climate change link, considering the administration's relentless push to boost domestic fossil fuel production. It is also reminiscent of former Interior Department chief Ryan Zinke's response to wildfires in the western United States. And in an interview with Fox Business after returning to Washington, D.C., Zinke said whether climate change is contributing to the infernos is "irrelevant to what's occurred." He emphasized the need for better forest management by pointing to the more than 120 million dead trees in California but failed to mention that the trees died because of a multi-year drought that scientists have concluded was made worse by anthropogenic climate change. When a reporter later pressed him outside the White House, Zinke said that "of course" climate change is a factor in the California fires ― a rather unconvincing acknowledgment, considering previous remarks and the number of times Zinke cast doubt on the all-but-irrefutable body of scientific research that shows human carbon emissions are driving global climate change. Early in his tenure, former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt prioritized fixing Superfund, the struggling and financially strapped program responsible for cleaning up the nation's most contaminated sites. The administration then turned around and proposed slashing funding for the program, from $1.09 billion to $762 million. Pruitt said that it wasn't a lack of money that was plaguing the program, but rather "poor leadership" and "poor focus" on the part of the Obama administration. Superfund's problems have almost everything to do with resources, which have all but dried up over the last two decades. Superfund experts have said the administration's approach highlights its lack of understanding about how the program functions. EPA maintains that Superfund is a "top priority" and that it "is making great strides in accelerating sites through remediation and back to productive use." Yet the $4.75 trillion 2020 budget blueprint the administration released this month once again calls for cutting Superfund dollars, this time by 10 percent.	False
324	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-12-12	I am hopeful that the exposure of such intolerance will lead to an improved working environment in my department and among others in my discipline," Mass said via email Wednesday.	Despite his agreement with the climate consensus, Mass has increasingly come under fire from activists for not toeing the alarmist line when it comes to blaming extreme weather events on global warming.	Rather than meet with Cliff Mass to discuss, the Assistant Dean sent a mass email to the faculty of the Atmospheric Sciences Department" echoing student complaints," Curry wrote.	"Name calling and politicization of science are toxic to the scientific enterprise, and undermines our credibility in the general community."	(RELATED: Washington Governor Warns 'There Is Not Survival' From Climate Change.	-1631 will be a trough of billions of dollars of cash for left-leaning social action and 'progressive' groups, and dealing with climate change will be a secondary priority," Mass wrote in a blog post with a picture of pigs feeding at a trough. <sep> 	Exclusive: Scientist Bullied By University Of Washington Faculty, Students For Climate Change Heresies Speaks Out Climate scientist Cliff Mass is speaking out against "academic political bullying" from University of Washington faculty and students, stemming from Mass's rejection of a carbon tax initiative favored by activists." cience can only flourish when there is tolerance for a diversity of viewpoints and ideas," Mass told The Daily Caller News Foundation. "Name calling and politicization of science are toxic to the scientific enterprise, and undermines our credibility in the general community." I am hopeful that the exposure of such intolerance will lead to an improved working environment in my department and among others in my discipline," Mass said via email Wednesday. Climate scientist Judith Curry detailed in a blog post Wednesday the actions UW and student activists have taken against Mass in recent months. Curry said Mass was a "victim of academic political bullying." There are clearly UW faculty "that don't like Cliff Mass," including, his department chair, and "most fundamentally, they seem to dislike that his blog is getting in the way of their own political advocacy," Curry wrote. Mass joined UW's Atmospheric Sciences Department in 1982 where he specializes in numerical weather modeling and weather patterns in the Pacific Northwest. Mass also publishes a science blog and has a popular weekly radio show. (RELATED: TheDCNF Asked Paris Climate Accord Backers If They'd Support Banning Private Jets. Most Didn't Respond)Mass is no global warming "denier" as many critics try to label him. Mass has repeatedly called global warming a serious threat and supported policies, including carbon taxes, to cut carbon dioxide emissions. Despite his agreement with the climate consensus, Mass has increasingly come under fire from activists for not toeing the alarmist line when it comes to blaming extreme weather events on global warming. What seems to have driven Mass's critics over the edge this time was the atmospheric scientist's public opposition to a Washington state carbon tax ballot initiative, called I-1631. In particular, critics went after a blog post Mass wrote in mid-October detailing why he opposed I-1631. Voters overwhelmingly rejected the carbon tax measure in November, despite support from Gov. Jay Inslee and other Democrats." -1631 will be a trough of billions of dollars of cash for left-leaning social action and 'progressive' groups, and dealing with climate change will be a secondary priority," Mass wrote in a blog post with a picture of pigs feeding at a trough. The picture has since been removed. The imagery of pigs feeding at a trough has long been used to describe special interest groups trying to syphon off government spending. State spending seen as wasteful or geared toward a special interest is often called "pork" or "pork barrel" spending. However, UW students and climate activists claimed it was "racist."I-1631 campaigner Izzy Goodman tweeted in October that "this alone proves that he is a blatant racist (which is probably why his climate policies are too!)." She later added, "[UW] you going to stand for this?"When Mass tried to reason with her, UW philosophy Ph.D. candidate Alex Lenferna tweeted, "Calling you racist for saying racist things is not name calling, it's an accurate description." The post showed Mass's "small [government], racist, anti-working class view," tweeted Lenferna, who also campaigned for I-1631. Student activists didn't stop at Twitter insults. Curry, who spoke at length with Mass about the events, wrote, "The attacks ramped up when a group of students complained to the Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion." Curry said the students accused Mass of "deception, being on the payroll of oil companies, purposely obfuscating with multiple twitter accounts, racism, misogyny, tokenism, Trumpism." Rather than meet with Cliff Mass to discuss, the Assistant Dean sent a mass email to the faculty of the Atmospheric Sciences Department" echoing student complaints," Curry wrote. The assistant dean's email claimed the blog had "imagery and text that was racially insensitive and caused offense to a significant number of members in the departmental community." The assistant dean made no attempt to contact Mass or try to "understand that there was no racism evident or intended, and that the image in question was quickly removed from the blog post," Curry wrote. The matter didn't end there, however, and Atmospheric Sciences Department Chair Dale Durran "sent a mass email to the Department faculty including the link to Lenferna's post, and voicing concern about Mass' behavior and 'racism,'" Curry noted. Durran held a faculty-wide meeting on Dec. 4. Durran reportedly took control of the meeting and even prevented Mass from finishing his opening remarks. (RELATED: Washington Governor Warns 'There Is Not Survival' From Climate Change. That Is, Unless His Policies Are Adopted)Durran "hectored Mass throughout the meeting," Curry wrote. "The activist students were true to form, hurling all kinds of insulting, personal and inappropriate remarks" as Mass sat through the inquisition. Duran was an ardent supporter of I-1631. Durran got 21 of his colleagues to sign a public letter, published in The Seattle Times in late October, endorsing the carbon tax ballot measure." ow is the time to take a big step to kick our carbon habit," Durran and his colleagues wrote. However, Curry reported that "several faculty members felt uncomfortable signing this," including one who told her they actually voted against the measure. Durran did not respond to TheDCNF's request for comment. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
221	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2019-03-31	He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time.	The American Petroleum Institute, a defendant in the case, disagreed with the ruling."	In addition to bringing supplies of affordable energy to consumers for decades to come, developing our abundant offshore resources can provide billions in government revenue, create thousands of jobs and will also strengthen our national security," it said in a statement.	Presidents have the power under a federal law to remove certain lands from development but cannot revoke those removals, Gleason said."	Erik Grafe, an attorney with Earthjustice, welcomed the ruling, saying it "shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans, wildlife and climate."		Judge strikes down Trump's offshore drilling decision President Trump exceeded his authority when he reversed bans on offshore drilling in vast parts of the Arctic Ocean and dozens of canyons in the Atlantic Ocean, a U.S. judge said in a ruling that restored the Obama-era restrictions. U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy. Presidents have the power under a federal law to remove certain lands from development but cannot revoke those removals, Gleason said." The wording of President Obama's 2015 and 2016 withdrawals indicates that he intended them to extend indefinitely, and therefore be revocable only by an act of Congress," said Gleason, who was nominated to the bench by Obama. The American Petroleum Institute, a defendant in the case, disagreed with the ruling." In addition to bringing supplies of affordable energy to consumers for decades to come, developing our abundant offshore resources can provide billions in government revenue, create thousands of jobs and will also strengthen our national security," it said in a statement. Erik Grafe, an attorney with Earthjustice, welcomed the ruling, saying it "shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans, wildlife and climate." Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans. At issue in the case was the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953. He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time. In 2015, Mr. Obama halted exploration in coastal areas of the Beaufort and Chukchi seas and the Hanna Shoal, an important area for walrus. In late 2016, he withdrew most other potential Arctic Ocean lease areas - about 98 percent of the Arctic outer continental shelf. The bans were intended to protect polar bears, walruses, ice seals and Alaska Native villages that depend on the animals. In the Atlantic, Mr. Obama banned exploration in 5,937 square miles of underwater canyon complexes, citing their importance for marine mammals, deep-water corals, valuable fish populations and migratory whales.	True
761	Yahoo News	left_center_bias	2017-07-17	"The climate crisis is by far the most serious challenge we face."	f everybody's just completely happy with what you're doing, you may not be working hard enough to bring about the kind of change that we need," Gore said on CBS.	The longtime climate change battle advocate has taken criticism of his work in stride."	economy."	"There are now twice as many jobs in the solar industry as in the coal industry."	he climate movement, not least in cities, is right now in the tradition of all the great moral causes that have improved the circumstances of humanity throughout our history," Gore said in the speech. <sep> But the former vice president, who won a Nobel Peace Prize for his climate change work, has faced pushback from some conservatives for his efforts." <sep> 	Gore: Trump 'tears down America's standing in the world' by leaving Paris climate accord Former Vice President Al Gore said Monday that the U.S. is "going through a challenging time" under the Trump administration, decrying President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement." e've never had a president who's deliberately made decisions the effect of which is to tear down America's standing in the world, starting with his withdrawal from the Paris Agreement," Gore said Monday on NBC's "Today Show." "The climate crisis is by far the most serious challenge we face." Trump announced last month that the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, an international pact signed by more than 190 countries to commit to fighting climate change by reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Gore, who has spent much of his time after his 2000 presidential run crusading to fight climate change, met with Trump last year at Trump Tower to discuss climate change. The meetings had given Gore hope that the president would "come to his senses" about the Paris Agreement." ut I was wrong," Gore said. He declined to elaborate on what was discussed in the meeting. Trump, who has called climate change a hoax, argued in June that withdrawing from the Paris Agreement would benefit the U.S. economy." ell, the business community does not believe that at all," Gore said on CBS' "Sunday Morning." "There are now twice as many jobs in the solar industry as in the coal industry." In the U.S., the number of solar jobs is growing 17 times faster than the number of jobs in other industries, Gore said, calling the solar industry "one of the brightest spots in our economic revival." But the former vice president, who won a Nobel Peace Prize for his climate change work, has faced pushback from some conservatives for his efforts." ox & Friends" criticized Gore for comparing the climate change fight to fights against moral issues such as slavery and apartheid in a July 13 speech at the Ecocity World summit in Australia." he climate movement, not least in cities, is right now in the tradition of all the great moral causes that have improved the circumstances of humanity throughout our history," Gore said in the speech. "The abolition of slavery. Women's suffrage and women's rights. The civil rights movement and the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa." Seriously?? Former VP Al Gore compares climate battle to fight against slavery and apartheid," Fox & Friends tweeted. The longtime climate change battle advocate has taken criticism of his work in stride." f everybody's just completely happy with what you're doing, you may not be working hard enough to bring about the kind of change that we need," Gore said on CBS. He added that he'll continue to fight climate change, adding, "I could not lay this [fight] down or put it aside even if I wanted to. I don't want to." On NBC, Gore was quick to say that Trump's decision to leave the Paris Agreement is just one of the ways in which the president has "hurt" America's  "standing in the world," citing damage to international alliances such as NATO." he months ahead will be a test for the American people," Gore said on NBC.	True
86	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-02-06	The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others.	After failing to persuade House Democratic leaders to establish a select committee on a Green New Deal, she began work on a sweeping new resolution outlining a transformative policy to guarantee high-wage clean energy jobs to millions of Americans and upgrade the nation's crumbling infrastructure to withstand already-unavoidable extreme weather and sea level rise.	Moments after he started speaking Wednesday morning before the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Rep. John Shimkus (R-Ill.) urged Democrats to "accept that proposing top-down government requirements to rapidly decarbonize the U.S. and global economies may not be the most realistic way to address the climate change problem."	Rich Powell, the executive director of the conservative clean energy advocacy group ClearPath, complained that the emissions projected to come from new coal-fired plants in other countries, particularly India and China, would "completely offset" the climate benefits of the U.S. completely decarbonizing.	We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path," said Shimkus, who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science.	Two congressional hearings on Wednesday morning ― the first science-based discussions in the House focused on climate change in years ― did little to move the needle on a long-stagnant policy debate on how to keep global warming from reaching temperatures with catastrophic consequences. <sep> 	The Republican Assault On The Green New Deal Begins Glamour Rep. John Shimkus (R-Ill.), long a climate change denier who in the past has relied on Bible verses to make his case, argued against the Green New Deal at a House hearing on Wednesday. Moments after he started speaking Wednesday morning before the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Rep. John Shimkus (R-Ill.) urged Democrats to "accept that proposing top-down government requirements to rapidly decarbonize the U.S. and global economies may not be the most realistic way to address the climate change problem." We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path," said Shimkus, who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science. Two congressional hearings on Wednesday morning ― the first science-based discussions in the House focused on climate change in years ― did little to move the needle on a long-stagnant policy debate on how to keep global warming from reaching temperatures with catastrophic consequences. But GOP opposition to a Green New Deal, the grassroots effort to dramatically cut greenhouse gas emissions that has energized activists for months, was on full display. Once a vague term for clean-energy stimulus, the Green New Deal re-emerged in the political discourse in mid-2018. A cadre of left-wing Democratic candidates began using it to describe plans to spend trillions of dollars on a national industrial strategy to zero out fossil fuel emissions and power the country with 100 percent renewables in a decade. The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others. Scientists quickly praised the idea of a Green New Deal as the first policy on the scale of the climate crisis. In November, newly elected Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) positioned herself as the champion of the Green New Deal movement. After failing to persuade House Democratic leaders to establish a select committee on a Green New Deal, she began work on a sweeping new resolution outlining a transformative policy to guarantee high-wage clean energy jobs to millions of Americans and upgrade the nation's crumbling infrastructure to withstand already-unavoidable extreme weather and sea level rise. Despite years of partisan bickering over the realities of climate change, the idea proved popular. Eighty-one percent of registered voters said they supported the main goals of the Green New Deal in a poll released in December. That included 64 percent of Republicans and 57 percent of self-described conservative Republicans. Last month, another poll found a narrow majority of voters said they supported a Green New Deal even if it required raising taxes to fund it. Rich Powell, the executive director of the conservative clean energy advocacy group ClearPath, complained that the emissions projected to come from new coal-fired plants in other countries, particularly India and China, would "completely offset" the climate benefits of the U.S. completely decarbonizing. As HuffPost reported on Tuesday, the Green New Deal resolution Ocasio-Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) are expected to unveil this week does just that, calling on the nation to "promote the international exchange of technology, expertise, products, funding and services with the aim to reclaim U.S. leadership on climate change to help other countries achieve a Green New Deal." You only have to be 25 years old to be a member of Congress. We have young people that bring a lot of great qualities, but maybe they don't bring a lot of life experience," he said. "I guess I can understand if someone has not had a lot of life experience and they're proposing something that's extremely unrealistic ― well, impossible. Impossible." What I don't understand is adults and grownups, who are older and more mature, who are also advocating something that's impossible," he added, referring to several of the 2020 Democratic presidential hopefuls. Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) resorted to misrepresenting the Green New Del proposal in arguing against it. He said he and other Republicans "have real concerns" about shuttering military bases around the globe and cutting military spending by 50 percent ― proposals floated not by any congressional Democrats in the climate change debate but by Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein in 2016. Gohmert told panel witness Rev. Lennox Yearwood, president of the national, nonprofit Hip Hop Caucus, that he found it "interesting" at the activist would support a Green New Deal, given Yearwood's previous service as an officer in the U.S. Air Force Reserve Chaplain Corps.	True
139	politicususa	left_bias	2019-08-28	At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail.	Last week, for example, she came under fire from the Sunrise Movement and other climate change activists when she initially declined to participate in the televised Sept. 4 climate change town hall to attend a fundraiser.	All of the other top-tier presidential candidates have already detailed aggressive plans to eliminate U.S. greenhouse gas emissions within 10 to 30 years, tapping into what has become a crucial issue for Democratic voters."	During campaign speeches, she tends to include a brief mention of climate change, calling it a real crisis and adding that she would re-engage the United States in global efforts to fight it if elected.	Kamala Harris' climate plan to draw on her experience suing polluters (Reuters) – U.S. presidential hopeful Kamala Harris' campaign is finalizing a plan to tackle climate change that will center on cracking down on fossil fuel companies and protecting poor neighborhoods from the worst impacts of global warming, according to two sources familiar with the matter.		Kamala Harris' climate plan to draw on her experience suing polluters (Reuters) – U.S. presidential hopeful Kamala Harris' campaign is finalizing a plan to tackle climate change that will center on cracking down on fossil fuel companies and protecting poor neighborhoods from the worst impacts of global warming, according to two sources familiar with the matter. The plan is meant to set the U.S. senator from California apart in a crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates by drawing on her experience prosecuting polluters as a California attorney general and district attorney. At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail. All of the other top-tier presidential candidates have already detailed aggressive plans to eliminate U.S. greenhouse gas emissions within 10 to 30 years, tapping into what has become a crucial issue for Democratic voters." he wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths, focusing on environmental justice and enforcement," said one of the sources. Like the other candidates, Harris' plan will also likely target a swift end to fossil fuels use, though the details are still being drafted, the sources said. The campaign is expected to release the plan ahead of a climate change-focused town hall with the candidates on Sept. 4, they said.A spokeswoman for Harris' campaign, Kate Waters, declined to comment on the details but said Harris would be releasing something "soon." While activist groups say they are generally happy with Harris' environmental credentials, she has drawn their criticism since launching her presidential bid. Last week, for example, she came under fire from the Sunrise Movement and other climate change activists when she initially declined to participate in the televised Sept. 4 climate change town hall to attend a fundraiser. Her campaign later announced she had changed her plans and would attend. During campaign speeches, she tends to include a brief mention of climate change, calling it a real crisis and adding that she would re-engage the United States in global efforts to fight it if elected. Republican President Donald Trump has rolled back U.S. climate change rules he views as damaging to the economy, and announced plans to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement, an international accord to limit global warming. Bahram Fazeli, director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment, a California-focused environmental justice group, said Harris' record on the environment was "decent." As a senator, Harris was among the original co-sponsors of the Green New Deal – a nonbinding congressional resolution to zero out U.S. emissions by 2030 – and introduced bills to denounce Trump's efforts to roll back California's vehicle emissions standards and drill for oil and natural gas in federal waters. She has also co-sponsored an environmental justice bill with Green New Deal author congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez, which includes the creation of a federal office for environmental justice. Previously, as California's attorney general, Harris was charged with protecting the state's progressive environmental laws in the courts. Her biggest environmental victory, according to green groups, came in 2016 when a grand jury indicted Plains All-American Pipeline on criminal charges related to a 2015 oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara. She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change, though her office never confirmed the probe. Since then both New York and Massachusetts have pursued cases against the oil company. Earlier, as district attorney for San Francisco, Harris also created the city's first environmental crimes unit.	True
848	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-22	The measure had been put forward as a way of complying with requirements of the non-binding Paris agreement.	After all, once the photo ops are finished and the politically correct accords are duly signed amidst solemn brow furling, political leaders must get back to the business of meeting the real needs of their citizens—which all depend on the availability of affordable energy.	Apparently, Sloan's arguments and those of like-minded analysts prevailed on policy makers, and the country rejected the CET with its taxpayer funded subsidizing of renewables.A second blow to disciples of the Paris Climate Accord was last week's Austrian election, Solomon argues, "which saw two conservative parties with no interest in climate change — it wasn't even an election issue — come in first and second, making them likely to form a pro-carbon coalition government."	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germany's climate policy, but also jeopardizes "Germany's international reputation as a climate leader," Solomon asserts.	Late last year, to their national embarrassment, the Germans had to be bailed out of a small energy crisis by Poland when the wind failed to blow for several days and a thick fog surrounded many parts of Germany, driving the output from renewables to just 4 percent of total demand.	It was coal-fueled Poland that had to rescue Germany from its self-induced energy crisis." <sep> This quiet revolution may simply be a welcome return to common sense and realism. <sep> And so around the world—except in Trudeau's Canada—nations are once again turning back to inexpensive coal rather than pouring more money into costly "renewables," and coal plants are being built at five times the rate that old plants are being decommissioned. <sep> Meanwhile, Solomon notes in an essay in Friday's Financial Post, "most signatories are ignoring, if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments, undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios." <sep> 	Report: Most Signatories Are 'Ignoring' or 'Abandoning' Paris Climate Commitments According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe, a Toronto-based environmental organization, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Meanwhile, Solomon notes in an essay in Friday's Financial Post, "most signatories are ignoring, if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments, undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios." Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris," Solomon writes. "The populist backlash — a revulsion at top-down governments laden with jet-setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses — has swept America with Trump's election, Great Britain with Brexit, much of Europe, and Australia." In the process, global warming enthusiasts are being swept out," he writes. Last week, Australia rejected its Clean Energy Target (CET), a lengthy proposal that would have forced electricity utilities to rely on renewables and other low-emission sources for a substantial percentage of their production. The measure had been put forward as a way of complying with requirements of the non-binding Paris agreement. Earlier this month, the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest "scam" being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers, greater even than Ponzi, Madoff or Enron. While sinking enormous financial resources into propping up renewable energy prospectors, national governments are providing no perceptible benefits to their citizens, Sloan wrote." ith very few exceptions, governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary, at least politically, to be seen to be doing something about climate change," Sloan writes, before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion. Apparently, Sloan's arguments and those of like-minded analysts prevailed on policy makers, and the country rejected the CET with its taxpayer funded subsidizing of renewables.A second blow to disciples of the Paris Climate Accord was last week's Austrian election, Solomon argues, "which saw two conservative parties with no interest in climate change — it wasn't even an election issue — come in first and second, making them likely to form a pro-carbon coalition government." Germany, too, which has been a staunch proponent of anti-climate change regulations, has fallen "hopelessly behind in meeting its carbon targets," according to a leak. The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germany's climate policy, but also jeopardizes "Germany's international reputation as a climate leader," Solomon asserts. According to the analyst, popular opinion against German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "Energiewende" (energy transition) policies, which had doubled electricity prices, played no small part in Merkel's terrible showing in last month's national elections. Costs of the ill-fated Energiewende now total some €650 billion, a bill that weighs heavily on the shoulders of German taxpayers. Late last year, to their national embarrassment, the Germans had to be bailed out of a small energy crisis by Poland when the wind failed to blow for several days and a thick fog surrounded many parts of Germany, driving the output from renewables to just 4 percent of total demand. It was coal-fueled Poland that had to rescue Germany from its self-induced energy crisis." erkel may now be unable to form a government without the support of the libertarian Free Democratic Party, which demands an end to renewables subsidies," Solomon notes. And so around the world—except in Trudeau's Canada—nations are once again turning back to inexpensive coal rather than pouring more money into costly "renewables," and coal plants are being built at five times the rate that old plants are being decommissioned. This quiet revolution may simply be a welcome return to common sense and realism. After all, once the photo ops are finished and the politically correct accords are duly signed amidst solemn brow furling, political leaders must get back to the business of meeting the real needs of their citizens—which all depend on the availability of affordable energy.	False
510	usatoday	left_center_bias	2018-02-09	It can't block drilling but could file a lawsuit contending the move doesn't meet ocean management plans approved jointly by the state and federal governments in the 1970s."	Allen, a GOP candidate for governor, said that could help lower gasoline prices.	Fishermen, environmentalists, surfers and other critics demonstrated outside the state Capitol before marching to the meeting at a nearby library.	State and local governments could also block the construction of helipads and other infrastructure on land needed to support offshore operations.	Several demonstrators chanted in opposition at the open-house style meeting, where bureau scientists talked one-on-one with visitors and collected written comments."		California officials, protesters unite to fight offshore drill plans SACRAMENTO, Calif. — Commissions that oversee coastal lands and water pushed the Trump administration to leave California out of plans to expand offshore drilling, saying the state will throw up any barriers possible to prevent pumping and transportation of oil. The warning came weeks after Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said he wants to open nearly all U.S. coastlines to offshore oil and gas drilling. Since then, the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management has proposed six sales of drilling rights off the California coast and a seventh off Oregon and Washington between 2020 and 2023." iven how unpopular oil development in coastal waters is in California, it is certain that the state would not approve new pipelines or allow the use of existing pipelines to transport oil from new leases onshore," the State Lands Commission wrote in a letter Wednesday to federal officials. The commission controls up to 3 miles offshore, at which point federal jurisdiction kicks in. It has not allowed drilling in the state-controlled waters since a 1969 oil spill near Santa Barbara. State and local governments could also block the construction of helipads and other infrastructure on land needed to support offshore operations. In the 1980s, many coastal cities passed ordinances to block such infrastructure when President Ronald Reagan looked to expand offshore drilling. Many of those laws remain in place. Drillers could find ways around state and local restrictions — such as pumping oil directly onto ships for transport — but the process is expensive and may not be profitable if oil prices remain relatively low.A separate letter from the California Coastal Commission warned that an oil spill would devastate the state's tourism economy and coastal beauty. The letter pointed to the Santa Barbara spill, which caused severe environmental damage, hurt the fishing industry and dissuaded tourists from visiting. The commission has authority to review activities in federally controlled waters. It can't block drilling but could file a lawsuit contending the move doesn't meet ocean management plans approved jointly by the state and federal governments in the 1970s." e've fought similar efforts before, and we will fight them again," Coastal Commission Chair Dayna Bochco said. The state agencies weighed in ahead of a public meeting Thursday in Sacramento, the only opportunity for people to register their opinions in person to the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management. Fishermen, environmentalists, surfers and other critics demonstrated outside the state Capitol before marching to the meeting at a nearby library. Several demonstrators chanted in opposition at the open-house style meeting, where bureau scientists talked one-on-one with visitors and collected written comments." hy do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel," said Jim Wilson, a 71-year-old retired mail carrier from Placerville, outside Sacramento. Earlier in the day, the California Assembly voted overwhelmingly to oppose renewed drilling." e are California and we will fight back to protect our beautiful coast," said Assemblyman Al Muratsuchi of Torrance. Republicans Randy Voepel of Santee and Travis Allen of Huntington Beach said California can safely harvest oil and gas. Allen, a GOP candidate for governor, said that could help lower gasoline prices. Most of California's outer continental shelf – the area that would be opened to drilling – is in shallow water, where operations are not complicated, said Tim Charters, senior director of government and political affairs for the National Ocean Industries Association, a trade group for the offshore energy industry." t's critical to keep the dollars at home, create the jobs locally instead of sending the money overseas and creating jobs in foreign places," he said. Zinke angered critics when he said drilling off Florida's coast would remain off limits, prompting California Gov. Jerry Brown and others to request a similar exemption. Regulators later said no final decision had been made about Florida. On Tuesday, more than 100 demonstrators gathered outside Oregon's state Capitol in Salem to denounce the proposal. A day later in New Jersey, more than a dozen groups held a rally in the driving rain on the Asbury Park boardwalk to demonstrate their opposition. Twenty-three meetings are planned nationwide in coastal states. Comments can be submitted online through March 9.	True
737	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-10-05	U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a "reasoned explanation" for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	The action followed an earlier effort by Interior to postpone part of the rule set to take effect next year.	As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling, the reason she called for the Obama-era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a "reasoned explanation" as to why it's flawed.	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda, the Trump administration has had one goal in mind: destroying former President Obama's environmental legacy.	The news comes as Donald Trump's Interior Department was in the process of delaying the regulation until 2019, calling it "too burdensome to the industry."		Federal Judge Smacks Down Trump Effort To Dismantle Obama-Era Environmental Protection A federal judge smacked down a new effort by the Trump administration to roll back an Obama-era rule "aimed at restricting harmful methane emissions from oil and gas production on federal lands," according to a new report on Wednesday. The news comes as Donald Trump's Interior Department was in the process of delaying the regulation until 2019, calling it "too burdensome to the industry." More from the report via The Washington Post:The order by a judge in San Francisco came as the Interior Department moved to delay the rule until 2019, saying it was too burdensome to industry. The action followed an earlier effort by Interior to postpone part of the rule set to take effect next year. U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a "reasoned explanation" for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty. She ordered the entire rule reinstated immediately. As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling, the reason she called for the Obama-era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a "reasoned explanation" as to why it's flawed. In a way, that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy. After all, there is no reasonable explanation for anything this president has done when it comes to the environment, whether it's allowing toxic sludge to be dumped in our waterways or pulling out of the historic Paris climate accord. While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda, the Trump administration has had one goal in mind: destroying former President Obama's environmental legacy. On Wednesday, one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	True
767	CNBC	left_center_bias	2017-09-01	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions, and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions, and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow, given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	Dems and conservatives alike want to help Trump cut taxes — by charging carbon polluters Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers, but it will come at a price: penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform.	Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers.		Dems and conservatives alike want to help Trump cut taxes — by charging carbon polluters Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers, but it will come at a price: penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform. Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers. The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions, and to convince companies to reduce their emissions. That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow, given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	True
476	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-11-18	We have reduced rainfall.	Jerry Brown, in the interview aired on Sunday, said: "Changing climate and the increasing drought and the lower humidity and water vapor" were important factors.	Asked on Saturday whether he thought climate change had a role in the fires, he said "you have a lot of factors".	So there is an atmospheric element which is part of the natural cycle and then there is an increasing effect of climate change."	But on top of that, we have this five year drought.	However, it seems likely that number of missing persons may be an over-estimate amid confusion over the way the list has been compiled. <sep> Gusts of up to 50mph were threatening efforts to control the Camp blaze, which is still only 55% contained 10 days after it brought devastation to northern California. <sep> 	California fires: death toll rises to 79 as winds threaten efforts to control blaze Strong winds on Sunday were expected to hamper progress for crews battling California wildfires which have now claimed at least 79 lives. Gusts of up to 50mph were threatening efforts to control the Camp blaze, which is still only 55% contained 10 days after it brought devastation to northern California. The fire which destroyed nearly 10,000 homes and has spread across 233sq miles is already the deadliest American wildfire in a century. And there are fears that the eventual death toll will rise much higher, with almost 1,300 people still unaccounted for. However, it seems likely that number of missing persons may be an over-estimate amid confusion over the way the list has been compiled. Butte county sheriff Kory Honea has stressed that the roster has been built up from missing person reports from calls, reports and emails since the fire began on 8 November. He has described it as "raw data" and said "there is the likely possibility that the list contains duplicate names" and some evacuees who have not reported themselves safe. California's outgoing Democratic governor Jerry Brown visited the scene of devastation at the town of Paradise with Donald Trump on Saturday. He told CBS's Face the Nation that Trump has "got our back" and has committed emergency support. Trump initially blamed state officials for poor forest management in making the fires in northern and southern California worse and even threatened to cut off federal funding. At the scene on Saturday, Trump recounted a conversation he had in Paris on 11 November with Finland's president Sauli Niinisto, who talked about monitoring forest resources with a good surveillance system. Trump said wildfires weren't a problem in Finland because the Finns "spend a lot of time on raking" leaves and "cleaning and doing things". But Sauli Niinistö, president of Finland, told one of the country's leading newspapers, Ilta-Sanomat, on Sunday that he never discussed raking with Trump."  mentioned [to] him that Finland is a land covered by forests and we also have a good monitoring system and network," Niinistö said, but had no recollection of mentioning raking of leaves or forest undergrowth, which the president appears to have seized on as a key point in wildfire prevention, while dismissing the issue of global warming. Asked on Saturday whether he thought climate change had a role in the fires, he said "you have a lot of factors". And asked if seeing the devastation changed his mind on climate change, Trump said: "No. No. I have a strong opinion. I want great climate. We're going to have that." Jerry Brown, in the interview aired on Sunday, said: "Changing climate and the increasing drought and the lower humidity and water vapor" were important factors. He said: "Managing the forest is part of it. They're a lot denser than they were 200 years ago. But on top of that, we have this five year drought. We have reduced rainfall. We have the dryness that turns vegetation and bushes and houses and trees into – literally into timber. So it's ready to explode. So there is an atmospheric element which is part of the natural cycle and then there is an increasing effect of climate change." But asked if he had made that case to Trump, he said: "I certainly raised it but I didn't feel that that was where we needed to go," then added that science would be the guide for analysing the fires "and the president in no way negated that".	False
294	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-10-09	Warren argues that "justice" plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change "crisis," citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people:Warren calls this phenomenon "environmental racism" and concludes that "environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long."	Elizabeth Warren Touts Plan to Address 'Environmental Racism' Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) on Wednesday unveiled her plan to address "environmental injustice" and "environmental racism," which includes a $1 trillion investment into minority communities affected by "industrial pollution."	Polluters must pay for the consequences of their actions – not leave them for the communities to clean up.	Coastal communities facing the threat of rising sea levels.	For instance, Warren says her housing plan will provide an assistance program, aimed to get impoverished families out of poor, pollution-ridden neighborhoods and into the "neighborhood of their choice."	However, Warren's role in crafting a petition to the Supreme Court on behalf of LTV Steel – which helped the company's "fight against a congressional requirement that it pay millions of dollars into a fund for its retired coal miners' health care" – calls her promise into question." <sep> The presidential hopeful even weaves in Medicare for All as part of her broader proposal, arguing such a system will "make it easier for the federal government to quickly tailor health care responses to specific environmental disasters in affected communities when they occur." <sep> e need a government that's on the side of families—not giant corporations polluting our communities. <sep> 	Elizabeth Warren Touts Plan to Address 'Environmental Racism' Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) on Wednesday unveiled her plan to address "environmental injustice" and "environmental racism," which includes a $1 trillion investment into minority communities affected by "industrial pollution." Warren argues that "justice" plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change "crisis," citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people:Warren calls this phenomenon "environmental racism" and concludes that "environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long." She previewed her plan in a video clip featuring far-left "Squad" member Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-MI)." e need a government that's on the side of families—not giant corporations polluting our communities. @RashidaTlaib and I walked through 48217, the most polluted zip code in Michigan, and talked with the families living every day with the effects of pollution," Warren tweeted alongside the clip:Like Warren's other proposals, her environmental injustice plan weaves in aspects of her other campaign promises. For instance, Warren says her housing plan will provide an assistance program, aimed to get impoverished families out of poor, pollution-ridden neighborhoods and into the "neighborhood of their choice." She also pledges to invest one-third – or $1 trillion – of her climate change investment "into the most vulnerable communities," although she does not specify what the $1 trillion will be spent on, specifically. Like most of Warren's plans, her environmental injustice proposal involves the implementation of another tax. In this instance, it is the "Superfund Waste Tax." There are over 1300 remaining Superfund sites across the country, many located in or adjacent to frontline communities. So-called "orphan" toxic waste clean-ups were originally funded by a series of excise taxes on the petroleum and chemical industries. But thanks to Big Oil and other industry lobbyists, when that tax authority expired in 1995 it was not renewed. Polluters must pay for the consequences of their actions – not leave them for the communities to clean up. I'll work with Congress to reinstate and then triple the Superfund tax, generating needed revenue to clean up the mess. The presidential hopeful even weaves in Medicare for All as part of her broader proposal, arguing such a system will "make it easier for the federal government to quickly tailor health care responses to specific environmental disasters in affected communities when they occur." Warren also reiterates her pledge to "ensure that employers and our government honor the promises they made to workers in fossil fuel industries." I've fought for years to protect pensions and health benefits for retired coal workers, and I'll continue fighting to maintain the solvency of multi-employer pension plans," she said. "As president, I'll protect those benefits that fossil fuel workers have earned." However, Warren's role in crafting a petition to the Supreme Court on behalf of LTV Steel – which helped the company's "fight against a congressional requirement that it pay millions of dollars into a fund for its retired coal miners' health care" – calls her promise into question." s I've traveled this country, I've heard the human stories from frontline communities. Families where many people have cancer. Coastal communities facing the threat of rising sea levels. Ruined land and poisoned water," Warren tweeted." hese communities need justice—and I will stand with them," she added:	True
282	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-11-18	Above and beyond its sinfulness, failure to care for the environment is an injustice and a crime, Francis suggested and should be legally enforced.	The pontiff said that such actions are "usually" caused by corporations, and "an elementary sense of justice would require" that they be punished for them.	"I would like to appeal to all the leaders and actors in this area to contribute their efforts to ensuring adequate legal protection for our common home," he said.	In his 2015 encyclical letter on the environment, Francis urging nations and individuals to exercise more responsible stewardship of the created world, but insisted that he wanted to encourage debate rather than pronounce on environmental issues."	"It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment, in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures."	"But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good." <sep> 	Pope Francis Wants to Add 'Ecological Sin' to Catechism ROME — Pope Francis told a group of lawyers that he could like to introduce the category of "ecological sin" into official Catholic teaching." e must introduce – we are thinking about it – in the Catechism of the Catholic Church the sin against ecology, the ecological sin against the common home, because it is a duty," the pope said Friday in addressing participants in an international conference on penal law. More specifically, Francis said, are all those actions that can be considered as "ecocide," for instance, "the massive contamination of air, land and water resources, the large-scale destruction of flora and fauna, and any action capable of producing an ecological disaster or destroying an ecosystem." Ecocide "is to be understood as the loss, damage or destruction of the ecosystems of a given territory, so that its utilization by inhabitants has been or can be seen as severely compromised," he said, adding that such a sin is "a fifth category of crimes against peace, which should be recognised as such by the international community." The pontiff said that such actions are "usually" caused by corporations, and "an elementary sense of justice would require" that they be punished for them. An ecological sin is "an action or omission against God, against one's neighbour, the community and the environment," Francis said, quoting the Fathers of the recently concluded Pan-Amazon Regional Synod. "It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment, in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures." Above and beyond its sinfulness, failure to care for the environment is an injustice and a crime, Francis suggested and should be legally enforced. "I would like to appeal to all the leaders and actors in this area to contribute their efforts to ensuring adequate legal protection for our common home," he said. The pope's words coincided with the release of a new survey by the Pew Research Center, which found that church-going Americans accept their clergy's on spiritual matters, but generally distrust their advice on issues such as climate change. Pew found that 68 percent of U.S. adults who attend religious services at least a few times a year say they have "a lot" of confidence in the advice of their clergy on growing closer to God, yet just a small fraction of this number (13 percent) say they have this confidence when the topic is "climate change." Pope Francis has thrown his moral weight behind the battle against anthropogenic climate change, but has also acknowledged that the Church has no authority on scientific questions. In his 2015 encyclical letter on the environment, Francis urging nations and individuals to exercise more responsible stewardship of the created world, but insisted that he wanted to encourage debate rather than pronounce on environmental issues." n many concrete questions," he wrote, "the Church has no reason to offer a definitive opinion; she knows that honest debate must be encouraged among experts, while respecting divergent views." Here I would state once more that the Church does not presume to settle scientific questions or to replace politics," Francis said. "But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good."	False
239	usatoday	left_center_bias	2019-02-26	"No panel 10 years from now can put the ice sheets back together or hold back rising tides."	And to think that you're going to be able to stave off public concerns and public demand for action by ... writing a denial report seems too late."	Let's have conservatives have a discussion instead of being in denial that this is a problem," former Ohio GOP Gov.	"This only serves to diminish the magnitude of this crisis, and it is dangerous."	But moderate Republicans are urging their party to stop challenging the science and starts confronting the problem of higher temperatures, worsening natural disasters and rising sea levels."	But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election. <sep> The science is largely settled on climate change and the threats it poses the panel. <sep> This is maybe the most conspicuous symptom of a disease of climate denial that has infected the Republican Party and the hard right," Schumer said at a Capitol Hill news conference. <sep> The panel's findings could give President Donald Trump, who has challenged his own government's conclusions about the causes of and threats from climate change, more ammunition to ignore it. <sep> Democrats who retook the House following the 2018 midterm election have been holding numerous hearings on the crisis. <sep> 	Climate change: Democratic lawmaker rips Donald Trump&apos;s panel on climate science as &apos;dangerous&apos; WASHINGTON – The Democratic chairman of a key congressional panel Tuesday characterized the Trump administration's latest efforts to challenge the science behind climate change as "dangerous." The comments by Rep. José Serrano, D-N.Y., chairman of a House Appropriations subcommittee overseeing federal climate funding, came amid news reports that White House officials are putting together a national security advisory panel aimed at countering the science behind human-caused global warming. The panel's findings could give President Donald Trump, who has challenged his own government's conclusions about the causes of and threats from climate change, more ammunition to ignore it. Serrano, who chairs the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, said that would be perilous." This unaccountable working group appears set to deliberately cherry-pick data and science with the sole purpose of pushing back against the widely accepted science around climate change," he said at a hearing Tuesday that featured government scientists testifying on the crisis. "This only serves to diminish the magnitude of this crisis, and it is dangerous." Shortly after Serrano spoke, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., announced Senate Democrats are drafting legislation that would block the White House from creating the panel." This is maybe the most conspicuous symptom of a disease of climate denial that has infected the Republican Party and the hard right," Schumer said at a Capitol Hill news conference. The science is largely settled on climate change and the threats it poses the panel. But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election. Democrats who retook the House following the 2018 midterm election have been holding numerous hearings on the crisis. Republicans, in turn, have accused Democrats of trying to use climate change to impose a leftist agenda that would ruin the economy. In early February, progressive Democrats unveiled their Green New Deal to remake the American economy into a social justice model focused on clean energy. But moderate Democrats have distanced themselves from the broadly worded plan that also calls for free housing, health care and higher education for all Americans, preferring only to endorse the portions that directly address climate change. Related: 250 dead, $91 billion in damages: 2018 was a catastrophic year for U.S. weather; 4th-warmest for globeRelated: Green New Deal: Why the GOP secretly likes Democrats' climate change planRelated: Climate combat: Democrats say Pentagon puts troops at risk by downplaying global warmingTrump has touted environmental deregulation and his abandonment of Obama-era steps to confront climate change as pillars of his "America First" economic agenda that has helped spur growth and lift the financial markets. But moderate Republicans are urging their party to stop challenging the science and starts confronting the problem of higher temperatures, worsening natural disasters and rising sea levels." This is like a call to arms. Let's have conservatives have a discussion instead of being in denial that this is a problem," former Ohio GOP Gov. John Kasich, who ran against Trump in 2016, is expected to say at a speech Tuesday at the University of British Columbia. "You can't just be a science denier." The White House would not confirm reports on the panel. Asked about the formation of the panel, a National Security Council representative said the administration wants to ensure that "decisions are fully informed and based on the most accurate and relevant information available." John Kerry, who served as President Barack Obama's secretary of State, wrote in a Washington Post column Tuesday that Trump should abandon the effort to discredit the science." As we careen toward irreversible environmental tipping points, we have no time to waste debating alternative facts only to invest years more reestablishing trust in the real ones," Kerry wrote. "No panel 10 years from now can put the ice sheets back together or hold back rising tides." During Tuesday's hearing, NASA Earth Science Division Director Michael Freilich was asked about the scientific integrity of the administration's most recent climate assessment, released in November, which White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders described as "not based on facts." The report "is a comprehensive, scientifically rigorously analysis and assessment if the available information primarily from the U.S. government," Freilich said. "We have made measurements of many climate indicators and many of the Earth's systems and it is clear that the climate is changing." David Doniger, a climate change expert with the Natural Resources Defense Council, said he was not worried about the administration's efforts to discredit the science given the preponderance of evidence." It just seems so late in the day," he said. "It's no longer a future hypothetical, it's real. And to think that you're going to be able to stave off public concerns and public demand for action by ... writing a denial report seems too late."	True
802	PBS	left_center_bias	2017-10-09	Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming.	Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state, Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man-man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	Even so, the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal-fired plants, which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power, as well as state mandates promoting energy conservation.	For Pruitt, getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change, including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal-burning power plants.		EPA chief says White House to roll back Obama-era clean power plan HAZARD, Ky. — The head of the Environmental Protection Agency said Monday that he will sign a new rule overriding the Clean Power Plan, an Obama-era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants." he war on coal is over," EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declared in the coal mining state of Kentucky. For Pruitt, getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma. Pruitt was among about two-dozen attorney generals who sued to stop President Barack Obama's push to limit carbon emissions. Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state, Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man-man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change. President Donald Trump, who appointed Pruitt and shares his skepticism of established climate science, promised to kill the Clean Power Plan during the 2016 campaign as part of his broader pledge to revive the nation's struggling coal mines. In his order Tuesday, Pruitt is expected to declare that the Obama-era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Pruitt said, "The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy." Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power-plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following legal challenges by industry and coal-friendly states. Even so, the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal-fired plants, which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power, as well as state mandates promoting energy conservation. The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change, including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal-burning power plants. The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report from Washington.	False
814	Fusion	left_center_bias	2017-05-25	But with a problem as big as climate change, and as multifaceted as national security, every step is worthwhile.	No one is saying that reducing methane leaks from gas drilling will prevent the next major conflict or humanitarian crisis.	Extreme weather events, made worse by climate change, disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism.	As a just-published report from the intelligence community details, climate change is a major military issue, acting as a "threat multiplier," which creates the conditions&#8211;drought and food scarcity for example&#8211;that breed instability and conflict.	Even with protections in place, gas remains a major source of greenhouse gas emissions, which cause plenty of problems.	Communities that could once comfortably live off the land are forced out of the fields and forests and into urban areas where tensions run high and food supplies low. <sep> This means more money in our coffers and less greenhouse gas in our atmosphere. <sep> The report also notes that the ecological damage done by climate change has human impacts. <sep> By producing energy in the United States and limiting pollution, we're making the world safer. <sep> The better we protect our environment, the better we can protect people. <sep> 	Methane rule survival a win for national security, taxpayers and the environment flickr/ Tim EvansonGood news, these days, is hard to find. So when a vote to overturn a relatively obscure rule governing oil and gas drilling on public lands failed, green groups were understandably jubilant. Fifty-one senators decided to put the best interests of taxpayers and the environment first, and narrowly saved a rule to limit methane emissions. This means that instead of wasting hundreds of millions of dollars worth of natural gas (methane is its primary component), companies will capture and sell it. Because companies drilling on public land pay royalties on the oil and gas sold, this means the public will receive tens of millions of dollars in revenue from gas that's currently burned or left to leak out and pollute the atmosphere. This means more money in our coffers and less greenhouse gas in our atmosphere. But lost in the post-vote beltway analysis is the fact that this is also a big win for national security. While that's not the most apparent result of the vote, it's one that should resonate with the Republicans who otherwise champion the military but bristle at environmental protections. That's because the rule puts otherwise wasted methane to use, boosting our energy security and reducing our dependence on foreign sources of energy. Since natural gas is sold globally, and Russia is a major exporter, boosting US production like this rule does cuts into Russia's share of the market. The more we produce, the less our European allies have to rely on Russian gas for their power supply. By making our natural gas production more efficient, this rule also lessens our reliance on even less friendly fossil fuel exporters, including countries to which we all too often send American soldiers. By producing energy in the United States and limiting pollution, we're making the world safer. Natural gas is not exactly beloved by the environmental community, but it can take much of the credit for reducing the use of coal, which is much dirtier and more harmful. So while some may say that Obama's environmental rules constituted a 'War on Coal,' in reality it was the cheap and plentiful supply of natural gas that put coal out of business. Ultimately, we'll need to transition from natural gas to renewable and zero-carbon energies like solar, wind, and next generation nuclear power if we want to maintain low-cost energy and a safe and secure climate. Even with protections in place, gas remains a major source of greenhouse gas emissions, which cause plenty of problems. As a just-published report from the intelligence community details, climate change is a major military issue, acting as a "threat multiplier," which creates the conditions&#8211;drought and food scarcity for example&#8211;that breed instability and conflict. Extreme weather events, made worse by climate change, disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism. The report also notes that the ecological damage done by climate change has human impacts. Communities that could once comfortably live off the land are forced out of the fields and forests and into urban areas where tensions run high and food supplies low. No one is saying that reducing methane leaks from gas drilling will prevent the next major conflict or humanitarian crisis. But with a problem as big as climate change, and as multifaceted as national security, every step is worthwhile. The better we protect our environment, the better we can protect people. Making sure companies capture and sell the gas drilled on public lands ensures that the American taxpayers get the biggest return possible for leasing that land. For anyone growing cynical watching beltway politics, Wednesday's victory on the methane rule was a rare and welcome reminder that common sense can still win out over the deep pockets of the oil and gas lobby. The vote was a win for taxpayers, a win for the environment, a win for national security, and a win for democracy.	True
512	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-12-14	We are left with no other alternatives.	Rural landowners complained about the governmentregulating how much pollution from chemical fertilizers and pesticides couldseep into water on their property.	There will be much handwringing about the shattering of democratic norms, butthe real work will be in doing whatever we can, in the little time we have, toavert a true climate catastrophe.	Federal authority was extended to limit pollutionin large bodies of waters and smaller bodies that drain into them, likestreams and wetlands.	This is a central threat to America'sfuture: a major, powerful political party rejecting science itself.	For 2020 and beyond, climate justice will have to become the most animatingissue for Democrats – not because it's a "winning" argument, though it is, butbecause the future of the planet depends on it. <sep> The job of the next president will be to undo the damage Trump has wrought. <sep> 	Clean water: the latest casualty in Trump's attack on the environment |  Ross Barkan The cruelty and the idiocy of Donald Trump's presidency does not chiefly liein his tweets or even his words. Trump the performer is ridiculous, but that'sthe clown show that keeps many of us either terrified or entertained – thereal harm is elsewhere, away from the blaring headlines. Trump has been most destructive in his willingness to carry out an unabashedlyrightwing policy agenda. Most Republicans competing for the nomination in 2016embraced their party's total capitulation to the fossil fuel industry, denyingthe existence of climate change and promising to shred EnvironmentalProtection Agency (EPA) regulations. This is a central threat to America'sfuture: a major, powerful political party rejecting science itself. This week, the Trump administration said it would ) designed to protect millions of acres ofwetlands and thousands of miles of streams from pesticide runoff and otherpollutants. This proposal would not just undo Obama-era regulations but chipaway at protections instituted under the late George HW Bush, perhaps the lastmajor Republican to pay even lip service to the environment. The Obama era rule was designed to limit pollution in about 60% of thenation's bodies of water, protecting sources of drinking water for about athird of the United States. Federal authority was extended to limit pollutionin large bodies of waters and smaller bodies that drain into them, likestreams and wetlands. Rural landowners complained about the governmentregulating how much pollution from chemical fertilizers and pesticides couldseep into water on their property. Real estate developers and owners of golf courses attacked the waterregulations too, and cheered the news that Trump, a fan of both real estatedevelopment and golf, was delivering on a campaign promise. The protection ofour water, they figure, shouldn't interfere with business. Not only will it soon be easier for pollution to seep into our waterways, if adeveloper finds a wetland is in the way of a money-making opportunity, thehabitat can be paved over altogether. Wetlands adjacent to a major body ofwater will warrant federal protection. The rest are fair game. Environmentalists are rightfully horrified and fearful of what's to come. It'snot just clean drinking water the Trump White House has disregarded. Proposalshave circulated to weaken regulations on planet-warming emissions from powerplants, oil rigs, and cars. Trump is trying to speed new drilling at theArctic national wildlife refuge. As climate change accelerates and the planethurdles ever closer to an existential crisis, Trump went to a United Nationsconference to ) of fossil fuels. The current administrator of the EPA, Andrew Wheeler, used to spend his timelobbying against environmental regulations on behalf of coal magnate Robert EMurray. He was chief counsel to Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma, a prouddenier of climate change. Democrats hoping Trump is impeached, indicted or somehow toppled before 2020should understand even such farfetched scenarios won't change the status quo. Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctityof fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people. They worship atthe altar of nihilistic capitalism. Mike Pence won't save you. For 2020 and beyond, climate justice will have to become the most animatingissue for Democrats – not because it's a "winning" argument, though it is, butbecause the future of the planet depends on it. This is why Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez ) Nancy Pelosi's office to force supportfor a "Green New Deal". We are left with no other alternatives. The job of the next president will be to undo the damage Trump has wrought. There will be much handwringing about the shattering of democratic norms, butthe real work will be in doing whatever we can, in the little time we have, toavert a true climate catastrophe.	True
469	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-08-06	Be the solution, not the problem.	Problem solved."	But it's unclear how that would help staunch California fires.	Fix the EPA, don't dismantle it.	California wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized.	Stop rolling back fuel & auto standards. <sep> Your destructive environmental policy is what causes climate change. <sep> Im working alongside my addministration to formulate a plan of action to swiftly dayliver aids and support to all the suffered comuntitties." <sep> It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. <sep> — Eric Foltz (@EricFoltz) August 6, 2018What are you going to do with the "massive amount of water" that doesn't exist in California? <sep> — Primrose Lane (@ridiculoustimes) August 6, 2018No you #StableGenius, scientists have been seeing the fingerprints of #climatechange all over these fires and it's making them far worse. <sep> 	Trump Accuses California Of Causing Wildfires By 'Diverting' Water To Pacific As California wildfires claimed their seventh victim, Donald Trump finally weighed in on the tragedy with one of his most confounding tweets ever, blaming California for the blazes because it "diverts" water to the Pacific Ocean. He also blamed the state's "bad environmental laws" — the most protective in the nation — and trees. He called for a "tree clear to stop fire spreading." He failed to express condolences to the families of the victims, thank firefighters, or offer comfort to Californians afraid for their lives, homes and communities. California wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 5, 2018The tweet came just days after the Trump administration moved to scrap tough vehicle emissions standards — initially established by California. The move would clear the way for vehicles to pump an additional 600 million metric tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere by 2030. That's the equivalent of the entire annual emissions of Canada. It's unclear what the president meant by water "diverted" into the Pacific. California allocates water among residents, agricultural and industrial use, and for wetlands and wildlife, including water mandated to protect endangered species. But state waters eventually drain into the ocean. As one tweeter responded: "Water running into the Pacific Ocean is called a river." And firefighters haven't complained of a lack of water for battling the blazes. The tweet could be a muddled indication of support for a GOP battle in Washington for a larger water allocation to farmers, many of them Republican voters, in the drought-stricken state's central valley.  But it's unclear how that would help staunch California fires. The scientific consensus is that fires are becoming more common because of climate change, which Trump once called a Chinese "hoax." Twitter users were stunned the president failed to express concern about people suffering in the fires. But most readers were stumped — or derisive. One responded: "Thanks, genius. Problem solved." As a professor who specializes in wildfire management, there are a lot of things that are broken about how we prepare for & fight wildfires... but it's near impossible to overstate how ridiculous this comment is.  — Eric Kennedy (@ericbkennedy) August 5, 2018I had to come look if this was a real tweet. Ummmmm.... gee..... You seem to know next to nothing about California. Fires are more often fought with flame retardant. Mowing down a forest to keep the forest from burning is on the crazy side. — bree brinkenstein👻❄ (@eebrinkenstein) August 6, 2018Thank you for your heartfelt words of concern and support for the families who have lost everything. — Primrose Lane (@ridiculoustimes) August 6, 2018No you #StableGenius, scientists have been seeing the fingerprints of #climatechange all over these fires and it's making them far worse. Why don't you offer your condolences and then maybe read something aside from the McDonalds menu:  — Miroslava Korenha (@M_Korenha) August 6, 2018By "tree clear", I'm sure you're talking about logging. You're not interested in fire safety. All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer. — Audrey (@AudreyK27) August 6, 2018How about a shout out to the 15,000+ Firefighters who areputting their lives on the line backed with a commitment of support? That is what a real President would do. #Californiafires#California #Calfires — ⚑🌹 Big Ass Mustache🍭 (@XX7xluckydem0n) August 6, 2018JUST IN: The President of the United States blames environmental protection laws for California wildfires, and believes that useful fresh water is being diverted to the Pacific Ocean. It remains unclear if he also believes that the Earth is flat, and the sun revolves around it. — Trump Thoughts (@TrumpDotDotDot) August 5, 2018So... you want to stop trees from catching on fire... by removing the trees...?But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment. You said so! — Andrew (@AndrewSnarks) August 6, 2018I fixed your tweet, boo. Don't worry. I always got your back. "My hart goes out to all those infected by the kalifornia wildfires. Im working alongside my addministration to formulate a plan of action to swiftly dayliver aids and support to all the suffered comuntitties." — Joe Bereta of The Valleyfolk (@joebereta) August 5, 2018So how do you explain the fires in Wyoming, Idaho, Nevada, Arizona, Texas and Montana?Those states aren't exactly models of environmental regulation and yet they are burning also. — Eric Foltz (@EricFoltz) August 6, 2018What are you going to do with the "massive amount of water" that doesn't exist in California? Your destructive environmental policy is what causes climate change. Stop rolling back fuel & auto standards. Fix the EPA, don't dismantle it. Be the solution, not the problem. (Right!) — Zardoz commands that Trump should be impeached! (@mr3film) August 6, 2018	False
780	CBS News	left_center_bias	2017-06-02	The decision by the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change is a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security.	This damages our nation's reputation as an international leader and puts future generations at risk to the threat of climate change.	Mayors and cities around the world to uphold the tenets of the Paris climate agreement and protect Boston against the very real impacts of climate change."	It is crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues."	By withdrawing from this unattainable mandate, President Trump has reiterated his commitment to protecting middle class families across the country and workers throughout coal country from higher energy prices and potential job loss."		Trump supporters, opponents react to Paris climate agreement pullout President Trump followed through on his campaign promise to withdraw from the Paris climate accord by formally announcing the U.S. intention to pull out of the agreement, saying the move would help American workers and the economy." The Paris climate accord is simply the latest example of Washington entering an agreement that disadvantages the U.S. leaving American workers, who I love, and tax payers to absorb the cost in terms of lost jobs and lower wages and vastly diminished economic reduction," Mr. Trump said. Following Mr. Trump's announcement , reaction from both supporters applauding Mr. Trump's move, as well as those who disagree with the pull out, was swift across the political spectrum." The nations that remain in the Paris Agreement will be the nations that reap the benefits in jobs and industries created.  I believe the United States of America should be at the front of the pack.  But even in the absence of American leadership; even as this Administration joins a small handful of nations that reject the future; I'm confident that our states, cities, and businesses will step up and do even more to lead the way, and help protect for future generations the one planet we've got." Removing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a reckless and indefensible action. It undermines America's standing in the world and threatens to damage humanity's ability to solve the climate crisis in time. But make no mistake: if President Trump won't lead, the American people will. President Trump's decision is profoundly in conflict with what the majority of Americans want from our president; but no matter what he does, we will ensure that our inevitable transition to a clean energy economy continues." The Paris climate agreement was simply a raw deal for America. Signed by President Obama without Senate ratification, it would have driven up the cost of energy, hitting middle-class and low-income Americans the hardest. In order to unleash the power of the American economy, our government must encourage production of American energy. I commend President Trump for fulfilling his commitment to the American people and withdrawing from this bad deal." I applaud President Trump and his administration for dealing yet another significant blow to the Obama Administration's assault on domestic energy production and jobs. President Obama made commitments in this deal based off a costly power plan that we knew at the time was on shaky legal ground. By withdrawing from this unattainable mandate, President Trump has reiterated his commitment to protecting middle class families across the country and workers throughout coal country from higher energy prices and potential job loss." President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement is a devastating failure of historic proportions. Future generations will look back on President Trump's decision as one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st century because of the huge damage to our economy, our environment and our geopolitical standing. Pulling out of the Paris agreement doesn't put America first, it puts America last in recognizing science, in being a world leader and protecting our own shore line, our economy and our planet. It's now crystal clear President Trump is comfortable both ceding the moral high ground and the economic upper hand to countries like China, and endangering the future of our planet." By walking away from this pact, President Trump is abandoning America's leadership position in the fight against the climate crisis and is sending a strong message to the rest of the world to create, design and manufacture clean energy solutions and create jobs elsewhere.  If President Trump wants nations like China and India to take stronger and swifter action on climate, then he should do so through the accountability and enforcement provisions in the Paris Agreement, not by breaking our word and storming out of the room." Today the President announced that the United States will no longer be bound by an agreement unilaterally entered into by the Obama Administration. This was neither submitted to nor ratified by the U.S. Senate, and is not in the best long term economic interest of the United States. President Trump's decision will prove to be the right course of action and one I fully support." Withdrawing the U.S. from the Paris climate agreement isn't just a setback, it's irresponsible. This damages our nation's reputation as an international leader and puts future generations at risk to the threat of climate change. Boston will not standby given what's at stake. As Mayor, I will continue to work with U.S. Mayors and cities around the world to uphold the tenets of the Paris climate agreement and protect Boston against the very real impacts of climate change." As a Governor, I always worked to balance economic growth and environmental protection.  We can, and we must do both.  President Trump acted in America's best interest, moving away from a flawed agreement that placed too heavy a burden on American jobs, and opening the door to a new agreement that reaches the right balance.  America will remain a leader in environmental protection.  But we will not jeopardize our economy in order to please other counties that don't come anywhere near our environmental standards." The decision by the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change is a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security. The Secretary-General remains confident that cities, states and businesses within the United States -- along with other countries -- will continue to demonstrate vision and leadership by working for the low-carbon, resilient economic growth that will create quality jobs and markets for 21st century prosperity. It is crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues."	False
466	vox	left_bias	2018-11-08	(Since the caucus hadn't come up with many concrete solutions yet, it's unclear what it will do going forward.	)Several state clean energy and environmental ballot initiatives were also thwarted at the polls.	Governors could drive the next wave of climate change action Environmentalists lamenting that a green wave didn't wash over Congress can find a glimmer of hope in the results of several key governor races.	But don't expect too much from a divided Congress and a president who is lackadaisical about whether climate change is even a problem.	What that means is that the bulk of climate change and energy advances we're going to see in the United States over the next two years will come up through state legislatures and governors' offices.		Governors could drive the next wave of climate change action Environmentalists lamenting that a green wave didn't wash over Congress can find a glimmer of hope in the results of several key governor races. As of Wednesday, it looks like Democrats committed to fighting climate change gained several key governorships that could accelerate local and national progress in clean energy. Democrat Stephen Sisolak won in Nevada, Democrat Janet Mills won in Maine, and Democrat Michelle Lujan Grisham won in New Mexico. In the past two years, these states all passed renewable energy bills through their legislatures that were vetoed by Republican governors. But with these Democrats now heading into the governors' mansions, it's very likely that these states will take another run at clean energy legislation. Sisolak, for example, campaigned on his support Question 6, one of the few state clean energy ballot initiatives that passed on Tuesday. This is a ballot measure that commits Nevada to getting 50 percent of its energy from renewable sources by 2030. "In fact, as governor, I would like to get us on the road to 100 percent," Sisolak said in a campaign ad. Meanwhile Mills's platform included cutting Maine's greenhouse gas emissions 80 percent by 2030. And Grisham advocated new rules to regulate methane, a potent greenhouse gas, and has a long voting record in the House as a representative of New Mexico in favor of bills to address climate change. Democrats flipped executive offices in other states as well. Democrat Tony Evers, Wisconsin's governor-elect, defeated incumbent Scott Walker on a platform that included a pledge to join 17 other governors committed to the goals of the Paris climate agreement. These wins are critical because governors have executive authority that allows them to dictate some state energy priorities. They also play a huge role in how federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act are enforced. We saw this play out in North Carolina after the last election. The state passed a law in 2012 preventing the government from even considering the latest climate change science in its planning. Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U-turn, going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. In 38 states, governors also appoint utility commissioners, who shape investment in energy infrastructure and can help decide whether to keep an aging coal plant online or to rapidly deploy renewables. That gives states like Nevada another lever to drive climate policies. Legislatures in several states — Maine, Colorado, New Hampshire, Connecticut, New York, Minnesota — also saw at least one chamber flip in favor of Democrats. In 13 states, Democrats now control the governorship along with upper and lower legislative chambers. This would allow them to pass aggressive renewable portfolio standards and greenhouse gas targets. But other governors races did not go as well — one high-profile candidate who made climate change a key part of his platforms, Democratic Florida gubernatorial contender Andrew Gillum, lost. As for national-level candidates, several House members who deny climate change like California Republican Devin Nunes held on to their seats. And Carlos Curbelo, a House Republican who proposed a carbon tax, was outflanked by his Democratic opponent Debbie Mucarsel-Powell. Curbelo also chaired the House Climate Solutions Caucus. The 90-member group counted 45 Republicans as members, but just 24 of them will return in January. (Since the caucus hadn't come up with many concrete solutions yet, it's unclear what it will do going forward.)Several state clean energy and environmental ballot initiatives were also thwarted at the polls. Measures like Colorado's anti-fracking Proposition 112 and Washington state's Initiative 1631 to price carbon emissions were defeated in part due to a firehose of money being unleashed by fossil fuel interests. What that means is that the bulk of climate change and energy advances we're going to see in the United States over the next two years will come up through state legislatures and governors' offices. But don't expect too much from a divided Congress and a president who is lackadaisical about whether climate change is even a problem.	True
739	PBS	left_center_bias	2017-09-21	RH: The types of mitigation efforts you're talking about are critical.	This is what we often hear referred to as 'resilience' or 'adapting' to a changing climate.	We absolutely do need to strengthen that infrastructure, whether it's elevating buildings, green infrastructure that can capture some of these excess water.	So that's increasing the risk of these types of storms.	Don't they override, or mightn't they override, the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?RH: There are many things that can impact the climate, for sure.	Is that the best approach?RH: If you live in a flood zone, certainly you should be thinking about climate change. <sep> But there are a lot of other factors that impact vulnerability as well. <sep> Another concern is that, since that home was built, there may have been changes in development in surrounding areas. <sep> That changes the flood risk. <sep> [But when it comes to] the climate change piece, and if we're talking about homes that are in coastal zones, sea level rise is a game changer. <sep> But right now, during this era that we're living in, human activities and the burning of fossil fuels is, by far, the most powerful influence. <sep> That's why we need a much deeper discussion, both about those properties that currently are insured, and about uninsured properties, and about properties that, as the climate changes, are going to be moving into newly defined flood zones. <sep> But you start to wonder, at what point have things changed too much for us to be able to adapt to? <sep> [In the future], we could see property values fall, not because water touches or doesn't touch some of these homes, but because of systemic risk, the inability of insurance to cover all these assets, or investors finally realizing that a lot of critical infrastructure isn't going to be fundable. <sep> For example, if you look at parts of South Florida, as sea levels rise, as the water table rises, no matter how much money you put into trying to build sea walls, that water is just going to make its way up, like Swiss cheese through some of that limestone. <sep> Paul Solman: How certain are we, or can we be, that these storms and the flooding associated with them is a function of climate change?Radley Horton: There are many components to these storms. <sep> And even if storms don't change at all, just by virtue of raising that baseline, raising that floor, we're going to see more frequent and more severe coastal flooding. <sep> Just since the start of the industrial revolution, we've increased the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by about 40 percent. <sep> For example, we know that sea levels are rising. <sep> The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity. <sep> 	How will climate change impact future floods and flood insurance? Editor's note: Radley Horton is a professor at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, where he studies climate extremes, impacts and adaptation. He spoke with NewsHour economics correspondent Paul Solman for Thursday's Making Sen$e segment on flood insurance. The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity. Paul Solman: How certain are we, or can we be, that these storms and the flooding associated with them is a function of climate change?Radley Horton: There are many components to these storms. And, depending on what part we're talking about, the certainty differs. There are some aspects that are really a sure thing. For example, we know that sea levels are rising. We know that's going to continue. And even if storms don't change at all, just by virtue of raising that baseline, raising that floor, we're going to see more frequent and more severe coastal flooding. But, when we look at some of the really fundamental aspects of a storm itself, there's more uncertainty. The balance of evidence suggests that the strongest storms will become stronger, with stronger winds, more storm surge, as the planet warms, and as the upper oceans warm. But we can't say it's a sure thing. PS: What about the larger cycles of the planet? Don't they override, or mightn't they override, the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?RH: There are many things that can impact the climate, for sure. But right now, during this era that we're living in, human activities and the burning of fossil fuels is, by far, the most powerful influence. Just since the start of the industrial revolution, we've increased the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by about 40 percent. It's already caused sea levels to rise, close to a foot in many places along the U.S. coast. So that's increasing the risk of these types of storms. WATCH: Less than half of Florida homeowners have flood insurancePS: Can't we mitigate the effects of flooding? I mean, that's what they're doing, raising houses all over the coastline in the United States, and [countries like] Holland. RH: The types of mitigation efforts you're talking about are critical. This is what we often hear referred to as 'resilience' or 'adapting' to a changing climate. And that has to be a key component of all strategies. We absolutely do need to strengthen that infrastructure, whether it's elevating buildings, green infrastructure that can capture some of these excess water. We need those strategies. But you start to wonder, at what point have things changed too much for us to be able to adapt to? For example, if you look at parts of South Florida, as sea levels rise, as the water table rises, no matter how much money you put into trying to build sea walls, that water is just going to make its way up, like Swiss cheese through some of that limestone. You can't hold the water back. PS: So what would you advise somebody who lives in a floodplain? Should they just get out? [Because] many can't, economically, right? Or do they jack up their houses? Is that the best approach?RH: If you live in a flood zone, certainly you should be thinking about climate change. That's one of the dimensions. But there are a lot of other factors that impact vulnerability as well. When people were assessing the risk originally and defining the flood zones, they [made estimates] based on 10, 20 years of rainfall data. [That's] an insufficiently long sample to really estimate the true one-in-a-hundred-year risk. Another concern is that, since that home was built, there may have been changes in development in surrounding areas. If you look at what happened in Houston recently, so much of the natural area had been covered up with pavement. That changes the flood risk. [But when it comes to] the climate change piece, and if we're talking about homes that are in coastal zones, sea level rise is a game changer. PS: When the federal government redraws a map in a place like Pequannock, New Jersey, and includes more and more houses, hundreds more houses, in the floodplain, is the government potentially overreacting?RH: The government is trying to update using the latest available information. More years of weather data are now available, and there've been changes in the land use in some of these regions as well, that impact the path that that water takes. PS: Has flood insurance basically induced people to take risks that they shouldn't be taking?RH: Quite possibly. That's why we need a much deeper discussion, both about those properties that currently are insured, and about uninsured properties, and about properties that, as the climate changes, are going to be moving into newly defined flood zones. [In the future], we could see property values fall, not because water touches or doesn't touch some of these homes, but because of systemic risk, the inability of insurance to cover all these assets, or investors finally realizing that a lot of critical infrastructure isn't going to be fundable.	True
804	The New York Times	left_center_bias	2017-06-20	Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday.	He added that protection from liability would be important to Exxon, which is under investigation for its past statements and actions on climate change.	A company spokesman said the liability component of the plan was not part of the company's decision to endorse it.	Mr. Gerrard added, "If a sufficiently high carbon tax were imposed, it could accomplish a lot more for fighting climate change than liability suits."	or this to pass, it will have to pass on a bipartisan basis," Mr. Halstead said.		Exxon Mobil Lends Its Support to a Carbon Tax Proposal The proposal also says companies that emit greenhouse gases should be protected from lawsuits over their contribution to climate change. Michael B. Gerrard, the director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia Law School and an expert on climate litigation, said there had been four suits brought against energy companies over climate change, including one brought by the eroding Arctic coastal town of Kivalina, Alaska. "None of those has gotten very far," Mr. Gerrard said, but "there continues to be talk of more." Mr. Gerrard added, "If a sufficiently high carbon tax were imposed, it could accomplish a lot more for fighting climate change than liability suits." The Climate Leadership Council's plan sets an initial tax of $40 per ton of carbon dioxide produced, which would add 36 cents to the cost of each gallon of gasoline sold. The group estimates the tax would raise more than $200 billion a year, and the rate would rise over time, dampening demand for fossil fuels. The average family of four would receive approximately $2,000 in the first year as a carbon dividend, the group says.A tax-and-dividend plan would cut American carbon pollution even as the Trump administration withdraws from the Paris climate accord, the group says. Exxon has said for years that it supports a carbon tax, at least in the abstract, but the company had never formally endorsed a proposal. In 2009, the company's chief executive, Rex W. Tillerson, who is now secretary of state, called carbon taxes "a more direct, a more transparent and a more effective approach" than a cap-and-trade proposal Congress was considering at the time. In a statement, the current chief executive of Exxon Mobil, Darren W. Woods, said the company was "encouraged" by the climate group's proposal, which "aligns closely with our longstanding principles." A company spokesman said the liability component of the plan was not part of the company's decision to endorse it. Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday. "Exxon is signing on to this carbon tax proposal because they know it's dead on arrival" in Congress, said Jamie Henn, a co-founder of 350. org. He added that protection from liability would be important to Exxon, which is under investigation for its past statements and actions on climate change. Along with the oil companies, the plan's corporate backers include Johnson & Johnson, Unilever, PepsiCo and Procter & Gamble. Ted Halstead, the chief executive of the Climate Leadership Council, said the group did not accept corporate contributions. Some environmental organizations, including the Nature Conservancy and the World Resources Institute, are endorsing the plan. Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking; Steven Chu, a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama; Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York mayor; and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata. The plan's Republican authors include James A. Baker III and George P. Shultz, both former secretaries of state, and Henry M. Paulson Jr., a former secretary of the Treasury. But Mr. Halstead said the council had "moved a little more to the center," adding new leaders like Lawrence H. Summers, a secretary of the Treasury under President Bill Clinton, and Laurene Powell Jobs, a philanthropist and the widow of the Apple founder Steve Jobs." or this to pass, it will have to pass on a bipartisan basis," Mr. Halstead said. Mr. Summers said the chances that Congress would pass a carbon tax in the near future were low. But, he said, "there is a reasonable shot that there will be an opening that will be taken in the next several years," especially because the dividends could benefit low-income Americans." t's hard to argue against a fuel tax that Exxon's in favor of," he said.	True
428	dailykos	left_bias	2018-04-26	As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitt's conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement , however, it's important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting.	As I told EPA in my testimony, "Families are looking to EPA to solve the coal ash problem — not abandon them.	Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash, and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position, Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants.	Pruitt is weakening the protections so that millionaire utility executives don't have to pay for affordable, common-sense fixes to America's mounting coal ash problem.	One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said, "What are you doing?	In places like and on the , we've seen the tragedies that coal ash spills and leaks can cause by devastating communities, contaminating water, and sending people to the hospital. <sep> The EPA had finally put very modest coal ash safeguards in place for these communities in 2015, and now Scott Pruitt is trying to take them away. <sep> 	Scott Pruitt Continues His Favors for Big Polluters and Puts Our Families at Risk Some of the regular Americans who are paying the price for Scott Pruitt's leadership were in Washington, DC this week, and I had the honor of spending the day with them and hearing their stories. As we all know, Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt headed to Capitol Hill Thursday, where he was grilled by members of Congress on his many ethical scandals that have been making headlines for weeks. Just two days earlier, people from across the US came to Washington to testify at EPA's lone public hearing on Pruitt's proposed rollbacks of protections from toxic coal ash. Their stories of coal ash contamination were heartbreaking - a North Carolina town where neighbors keep getting sick, a community on the Navajo Nation where people drive 15 miles to haul water for livestock. The EPA had finally put very modest coal ash safeguards in place for these communities in 2015, and now Scott Pruitt is trying to take them away. As I told EPA in my testimony, "Families are looking to EPA to solve the coal ash problem — not abandon them. If you don't defend these standards, the Sierra Club and our allies will." One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said, "What are you doing? Have you lost your mind?"Pruitt's maneuver to weaken coal ash standards has sparked grassroots outrage from red states and blue states. He is handing out yet another favor to the corporate polluters who've been and marching orders since he took over the EPA. Pruitt is weakening the protections so that millionaire utility executives don't have to pay for affordable, common-sense fixes to America's mounting coal ash problem. As I heard from scientists and the many families affected who spoke at the hearing earlier this week, coal ash is the primary solid waste product of coal-fired power plants and it contains some of the most dangerous toxic chemicals on earth, like arsenic, lead, mercury, and chromium. The toxins raise the risk for cancer, heart disease, and stroke, and can inflict permanent brain damage on children. It's estimated that 1.5 million children live near the coal ash storage sites, which are only getting larger with each ton of coal burned. In places like and on the , we've seen the tragedies that coal ash spills and leaks can cause by devastating communities, contaminating water, and sending people to the hospital. In 2015, after years of scientific research and public comments , the EPA finalized a set of basic clean water protections from coal ash that were cheap and easy for utilities to implement. These standards required coal-plant owners to do things like line new coal ash dump sites with strong, waterproof materials to make sure the dangerous contents of coal ash did not leach into soil and contaminate groundwater. They also provided local communities with online tools to monitor their groundwater to make sure that toxic heavy metals from nearby coal ash waste sites were not contaminating the water they used for farming, drinking, and cooking. In a cruel irony, Pruitt announced these rollbacks the day after EPA reporting under the new standard revealed dangerous coal ash pollution in more than 70 sites around the country. Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash, and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position, Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants. Nothing better illustrates this than the sweetheart deal Pruitt received from the wife of a dirty energy lobbyist who had business before the EPA . For a mere $50 a night, he stayed in a plush, multi-million dollar condo near the United States Capitol. By day, Pruitt was touting his rollback efforts to make it easier for energy companies and utilities to save money by polluting, and by night, he slept peacefully in a bed owned by someone who energy companies and utilities hire to do their bidding on Capitol Hill. As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitt's conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement , however, it's important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting. Real families will be hurt because of his decision to roll back the clean water protections against coal ash, people who can't offer him sweetheart deals on luxury housing. TAKE ACTION: Stop the repeal of coal ash safeguards!	True
161	thehill	left_center_bias	2019-08-26	He did not directly answer, saying he is an "environmentalist" but that he is unwilling to sacrifice the country's economic success to protect the environment.	The president on Monday cited the expansion of energy exports under his administration and the opening of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as ways he has made the country more prosperous.	Because that wealth allows us to take care of people."	And that's what we're getting."	I want clean water.		Trump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G-7 climate meeting President Trump Donald John TrumpJoe Kennedy says he's considering Senate run Biden tells supporters after flub: 'I'm not going nuts' Seoul's relations with Pyongyang and Tokyo need a jolt of reality MORE on Monday touted his environmentalist credentials hours after skipping a Group of Seven (G-7) summit meeting focused on climate, oceans and biodiversity. At a closing press conference before departing the summit, Trump was asked whether he still harbors skepticism about climate change. He did not directly answer, saying he is an "environmentalist" but that he is unwilling to sacrifice the country's economic success to protect the environment."I'm an environmentalist. A lot of people don't understand that," Trump said, citing his experience filing environmental impact statements for real estate developments."I think I know more about the environment than most people," he added. "I want clean air. I want clean water. I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with jobs, with pensions, with so many things. And that's what we're getting." At the same time, it's very important to me ... we have to maintain this incredible place that we've all built," Trump continued. The U.S. has "become a much richer country. And that's a good thing, not a bad thing. Because that wealth allows us to take care of people." Earlier Monday, the president skipped a G-7 session focused on climate and sent another administration official in his place. The heads of government of the other six nations that comprise the G-7 were there. During the climate meeting, leaders approved a $20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest, French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean-Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G-7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron: US, France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said. Trump has in the past characterized climate change as a hoax, mocked the idea of global warming by citing winter storms and cast doubt on government reports warning about how the changing environment might adversely affect the economy. His administration has rolled back a number of environmental protections enacted by the Obama administration, and Trump announced shortly after taking office that he would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement that seeks to combat global emissions. The president on Monday cited the expansion of energy exports under his administration and the opening of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as ways he has made the country more prosperous."I'm not going to lose that wealth," he said. "I'm not going to lose that on dreams. On windmills."	True
252	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-05	Banning plastic straws, discouraging meat, eliminating incandescent light bulbs.	Ending oil and gas exploration and extraction on public lands.	Banning nuclear energy.	It wasn't all the candidates' fault.	Set aside, for the moment, the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours — seven consecutive hours — of prime time programming to the subject.	Banning fracking. <sep> Again and again, for instance, moderators suggested that Hurricane Dorian was caused by climate change, or a sign of things to come. <sep> Biden blamed climate change for the cancer and the genocide in Darfur (previously thought to be the fault of Arab militias slaughtering, raping, and displacing black African civilians). <sep> Nor is any credit given for industry advances in environmentally-friendly technology (except as a warrant for more regulation). <sep> Taxing "carbon pollution." <sep> Some of the candidates barely seemed to care.1. <sep> Only businessman Andrew Yang and Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) offered defenses of nuclear power as a zero-emissions alternative, with Booker making the obvious argument: if you believe we need to reduce emissions quickly, nuclear is the only way. <sep> )But give the network partial credit for noting that plans like the "Green New Deal" will hurt mining and agricultural communities. <sep> 	Pollak: The Craziest Things Said at the CNN Climate Town Hall Over the course of seven hours, the top ten Democratic candidates for president in 2020 committed to radical solutions to "climate change" — a problem that, assuming the worst-case scenarios are true, will result in our grandchildren being much richer than we are, instead of much much richer. Set aside, for the moment, the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours — seven consecutive hours — of prime time programming to the subject. Clearly, CNN wanted to make a political statement about how important it thinks climate change ought to be in the election. Good. Given that the United States is the only country in the world that has reduced emissions over the past decade-and-a-half while growing its economy, and that the main reason is the growth of hydraulic fracturing ("fracking"), which Trump has supported and almost every Democratic candidate promises to ban, the only choice is to vote for the Republicans. That is, if you really care about climate change. (Otherwise you're just putting party before planet). That wasn't the point CNN wanted to make. Nor was it CNN's goal to expose the ignorance and extremism of the Democratic field. Yet that is exactly what happened. Given 40 minutes apiece, the aspiring Democratic contenders showed that they are willing to de-industrialize the U.S. economy, put millions of people out of work, and lower the standard of living for tens of millions more, all for the sake of "science" they cannot explain and do not understand. It wasn't all the candidates' fault. CNN kept making "scientific" claims that ranged from half-truths to pure baloney. Again and again, for instance, moderators suggested that Hurricane Dorian was caused by climate change, or a sign of things to come. (It isn't.)But give the network partial credit for noting that plans like the "Green New Deal" will hurt mining and agricultural communities. Some of the candidates barely seemed to care.1. Taxing "carbon pollution." Some called it a "carbon fee"; others called it a "carbon tax." Former U.S. Rep. Beto O'Rourke (D-TX) was the only one offering a "cap-and-trade" system as an alternative. All believe that you should be paying more for fuel. None suggested making it revenue-neutral — say, by lowering payroll taxes — though South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg would redistribute the money to the poor. (Learn from California: that's not happening.) 2. Banning fracking. With the possible exception of former vice president Joe Biden (who agreed last month at the second debate that he would "eliminate" fracking) and former HUD Secretary Julián Castro (who would back bans at state and local levels), all of the Democrats want to ban the one innovation that has made the greatest difference for our planet in the last twenty years, powered the economic recovery, and made us less dependent on the Mideast. 3. Ending oil and gas exploration and extraction on public lands. The Obama administration tried it, too. Never mind that some public lands have been specifically set aside for oil and gas development. There seems to be little thought about the impact that would have on the U.S. economy, on fuel prices, and on national security. Nor is any credit given for industry advances in environmentally-friendly technology (except as a warrant for more regulation). 4. Banning nuclear energy. Perhaps with Nevada — the fourth state in the 2020 primary contests — in mind, most of the candidates objected to nuclear energy because of challenges around nuclear waste storage. Only businessman Andrew Yang and Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) offered defenses of nuclear power as a zero-emissions alternative, with Booker making the obvious argument: if you believe we need to reduce emissions quickly, nuclear is the only way. 5. Banning plastic straws, discouraging meat, eliminating incandescent light bulbs. Sen. Kamala Harris (D-CA) admitted that paper straws are useless, but wants to ban the plastic ones anyway, based on pseudoscience. Booker, a vegan, says you can eat what you want — thanks! — but the rest want you to find another source of protein. And the candidates mocked Trump for halting the imposition of energy-efficient bulbs — seemingly ignorant of health risks. The craziness didn't end there. Biden blamed climate change for the cancer and the genocide in Darfur (previously thought to be the fault of Arab militias slaughtering, raping, and displacing black African civilians). Buttigieg said he would explain climate change to folks in the heartland by telling them God thought greenhouse gases were a sin. Bernie Sanders suggested global population control, encouraged by organizations that promote abortion abroad. They all want to rejoin the Paris Climate Accords; none wants to submit them to the Senate for ratification, but several want to eliminate or evade the filibuster to pass the "Green New Deal" — the "green" socialist manifesto written by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY). No compromises on the road to utopia. And plenty new material for Trump's campaign ads. Send a receipt to Jeff Zucker and file a form with the FEC. This one will leave a mark. Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He earned an A.B. in Social Studies and Environmental Science and Public Policy from Harvard College, and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.	False
582	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-09-17	MAUE: 'Climate Change' Hype Doesn't Help... As soon as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma made landfall in the U.S., scientists, politicians and journalists began to discuss the role of climate change in natural disasters.	By focusing on whether climate change caused a hurricane, journalists fail to appreciate the complexity of extreme weather events.	This research also takes time—which means other scientists must examine the evidence with patience and judiciousness not usually seen on Twitter or cable news.	The nascent field of "attribution science" attempts to explain how climate change may affect characteristics of a given hurricane using models in "what if" mode.	While most details are still hazy with the best climate modeling tools, the bigger issue than global warming is that more people are choosing to live in coastal areas, where hurricanes certainly will be most destructive.	In the aggregate, the global-warming signal may just now be emerging out of our noisy observational records, and we may not know certainly for several decades. <sep> 	MAUE: 'Climate Change' Hype Doesn't Help... As soon as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma made landfall in the U.S., scientists, politicians and journalists began to discuss the role of climate change in natural disasters. Although a clear scientific consensus has emerged over the past decade that climate change influences hurricanes in the long run, its effect upon any individual storm is unclear. Anyone trying to score political points after a natural disaster should take a deep breath and review the science first. As a meteorologist with access to the best weather-forecast model data available, I watched each hurricane's landfall with particular interest. Harvey and Irma broke the record 12-year major hurricane landfall drought on the U.S. coastline. Since Wilma in October 2005, 31 major hurricanes had swirled in the North Atlantic but all failed to reach the U.S. with a Category 3 or higher intensity. Even as we worked to divine exactly where the hurricanes would land, a media narrative began to form linking the devastating storms to climate change. Some found it ironic that states represented by "climate deniers" were being pummeled by hurricanes. Alarmists reveled in the irony that Houston, home to petrochemical plants, was flooded by Harvey, while others gleefully reported that President Trump's Mar-a-Lago might be inundated by Irma. How to put these two hurricanes into proper context? An informative website from the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, synthesizes reams of research literature on the links between hurricanes and global warming. Over the next century, climate models generally indicate fewer but stronger storms—between 2% and 11% greater average storm intensity—with substantially increased rain rates. Against the background of slow sea-level rise, explosive coastal population growth will overwhelmingly exacerbate any hurricane's damages. In the aggregate, the global-warming signal may just now be emerging out of our noisy observational records, and we may not know certainly for several decades. These conclusions are hardly controversial in the climate-science community. My own research, cited in a recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report, found that during the past half-century tropical storms and hurricanes have not shown an upward trend in frequency or accumulated energy. Instead they remain naturally variable from year-to-year. The global prevalence of the most intense storms (Category 4 and 5) has not shown a significant upward trend either. Historical observations of extreme cyclones in the 1980s, especially in the Southern Hemisphere, are in sore need of reanalysis. By focusing on whether climate change caused a hurricane, journalists fail to appreciate the complexity of extreme weather events. While most details are still hazy with the best climate modeling tools, the bigger issue than global warming is that more people are choosing to live in coastal areas, where hurricanes certainly will be most destructive. The nascent field of "attribution science" attempts to explain how climate change may affect characteristics of a given hurricane using models in "what if" mode. Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models. This research also takes time—which means other scientists must examine the evidence with patience and judiciousness not usually seen on Twitter or cable news. Still, the scientific community already knows plenty about hurricanes and climate change—knowledge it has accumulated over two decades through peer-reviewed research, academic conferences and voluminous national and international assessments. Yet climate scientists all too often speculate during interviews rather than refer to IPCC reports or their cousins from the U.S. National Climate Assessment. Some climate scientists have peddled tenuous theories with no contemporaneous research evidence. Advocacy groups package these talking points for easy consumption by journalists, who eagerly repeat them. The historical record books contain dozens of devastating hurricane landfalls over the past century, any of which, if repeated, would be catastrophic regardless of additional climate-change effects. To prepare for the next hurricane, the U.S. needs the best weather forecasts, evacuation plans and leadership. These plans should be built on sound science, not speculation, overselling or exaggeration. Hurricane science in this political climate already has enough spin. Mr. Maue, a research meteorologist, is an adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute.	False
375	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-08-06	Those concerns were magnified during the recent multi-year drought, and recent population surveys show fresh water diversion has not been enough to keep smelt populations from declining.	Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses, including agriculture.	Jerry Brown, a Democrat, blamed man-made global warming for the state's rash of intense fires in the last couple of years, however, wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire-prone areas.	However, it's unclear how diverting water into the Pacific Ocean affects wildfires in California.	s there a drought?"	Thinning of trees and removing of dead vegetation and brush can help mitigate wildfires. <sep> 	Trump Says 'Bad Environmental Laws' Made Deadly California Wildfires Even Worse President Donald Trump blamed "bad environmental laws" for making wildfires spreading across California "much worse," in a Sunday tweet. Trump wrote these laws "aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized," which is instead "being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading!"Persistent heat, dry condition and winds have fueled several major wildfires across California, the biggest of which is the Carr Fire that's scorched more than 140,000 acres and killed seven people. (RELATED: NYT Claims 'Global Greening' From CO2 Is 'Terrible,' Gets Owned)State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding, California. California Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, blamed man-made global warming for the state's rash of intense fires in the last couple of years, however, wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire-prone areas. That's likely what Trump is referring to when he tweeted "[m]ust also tree clear to stop fire spreading!" Thinning of trees and removing of dead vegetation and brush can help mitigate wildfires. What's not a clear link to wildfires, however, is Trump's referral to California water supplies being diverted into the ocean. He's likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt, an endangered fish. Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses, including agriculture. Those concerns were magnified during the recent multi-year drought, and recent population surveys show fresh water diversion has not been enough to keep smelt populations from declining. However, it's unclear how diverting water into the Pacific Ocean affects wildfires in California. Trump also lambasted policies forcing river water to be diverted during the 2016 campaign." s there a drought?" Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year. "No, we have plenty of water," adding "[w]e shove it out to sea." Trump approved disaster declarations for the Carr Fire, making it easier for state and federal officials to share resources and coordinate a response.	False
746	Yahoo News	left_center_bias	2017-04-28	The people have been heard and will continue to be heard," Brune said.	This deprives our country of potentially thousands and thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in wealth.	She said that renewable energy has already set the U.S. on course for energy independence and that offshore oil and gas drilling will condemn the nation to decades more of pollution."	So far, Trump's energy policies have aimed at reversing the plentiful environmental protections established by his predecessor, former President Barack Obama.	his executive order from the Trump administration is just the latest in a series of attempted rollbacks that most people in this country do not want, and only come at the behest of Trump's inner circle of desperate fossil-fuel executives," Best said.		Trump signs order to reverse Obama's ban on Arctic drilling U.S. President Donald Trump displays an Executive Order on "Offshore Energy Strategy" at the White House in Washington, U.S., April 28, 2017. (Photo: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)On the eve of his 100th day in the White House, President Trump signed an executive order Friday intended to let energy companies drill for oil in currently protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans. The move was swiftly condemned by environmentalists, but Trump hailed it as a victory for the economy." his is a great day for American workers and families. And today we're unleashing American energy and clearing the way for thousands and thousands of high-paying American energy jobs," Trump said, before signing the order. So far, Trump's energy policies have aimed at reversing the plentiful environmental protections established by his predecessor, former President Barack Obama. In the Roosevelt Room of the White House, Trump said the United States is blessed with wonderful natural resources, including offshore oil and natural gas reserves, which can be harnessed to stimulate energy production and job growth. He said the federal government has closed off 94 percent of these offshore areas, preventing potential energy production." nd when they say closed, they mean closed. This deprives our country of potentially thousands and thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in wealth. I pledged to take action and today I am keeping that promise," he said. Trump's signing of the "America-First Offshore Energy Strategy" comes a day before the People's Climate March, an international protest against Trump's energy and environmental policies. The flagship march in Washington, D.C., and the more than 300 affiliated marchers across the globe, are expected to draw thousands. Though similar to last week's March for Science, the march on Saturday will focus on Trump's efforts to remove regulations intended to protect the environment and curb climate change rather than scientific integrity. According to Trump, the new executive order begins the process of opening many offshore areas to "job-creating energy exploration" and rescinds the Obama administration's permanent protection of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans.A month before leaving office, Obama banned offshore drilling in nearly all of the Arctic under U.S. control to protect marine life and prevent potential oil spills. He also declared portions of the Atlantic Ocean unsuitable for drilling. Obama relied upon a little-known 1953 law that allows the president to ban oil and gas drilling indefinitely in U.S. waters. At the time, an Obama administration official suggested that Trump would not be able to reverse the ban without an act from Congress because of its "strong legal basis." On Thursday night, Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke briefed the press on the content's of the executive order. He said it would direct the Interior and Commerce Departments to review offshore drilling and gas regulations in protected areas. As expected, the response to Trump's executive order from the environmental community was swift and harsh. Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, released a statement saying that millions of Americans concerned about the dangers of offshore drilling will not be drowned out, regardless of the oil lobby's influence over Trump." ust as he has throughout his 99 days in office, Donald Trump will fail in this attempt to destroy our beaches and coastal communities. The people have been heard and will continue to be heard," Brune said. Greenpeace USA's senior climate and energy campaigner Diana Best also released a statement condemning Trump's executive order. She said that renewable energy has already set the U.S. on course for energy independence and that offshore oil and gas drilling will condemn the nation to decades more of pollution." his executive order from the Trump administration is just the latest in a series of attempted rollbacks that most people in this country do not want, and only come at the behest of Trump's inner circle of desperate fossil-fuel executives," Best said. "Holing up at Mar-a-lago may protect Trump from an oil spill, but it will not protect him and his cabinet of one percenters from the millions of people in this country — from California to North Carolina — who will resist his disastrous policies."	False
425	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-10-10	WASHINGTON ― The Republican response to an alarming new United Nations report on looming catastrophes caused by global warming suggests that little, if anything, will be done by the U.S. in the near future to address the threat of rising oceans, worsening droughts and raging wildfires."	The IPCC recommended several steps needed to reverse carbon dioxide emissions, including replacing the use of fossil fuels with renewable energy such as wind and solar, as well as growing more forests, which naturally recycles CO2.	"That's the main thing about getting to (the emmissions goal) is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society."	It also said that employing new technologies to suck carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere will be necessary to achieve the emissions target."	), a climate change skeptic, said of the actions urged by the report.	They've said the same thing before," Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said, adding that his responsibility was to "balance those interests raised in that report with (his state's) broader economic and security interests." <sep> here's not enough money in the world to pay for that," Kennedy said. <sep> The report's authors projected that staying at or below 1.5 degrees Celsius will require slashing the world's greenhouse gas emissions by 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030 ― and reaching net zero carbon emissions by 2050 ― targets that many GOP lawmakers brushed off as infeasible." <sep> Issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the report found that the world is rapidly running out of time to scale back carbon emissions to keep planetary warming within 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels. <sep> 	A Dire U.N. Report Warns Of Ruinous Global Warming. Republicans Say It's 'Fantasy.' WASHINGTON ― The Republican response to an alarming new United Nations report on looming catastrophes caused by global warming suggests that little, if anything, will be done by the U.S. in the near future to address the threat of rising oceans, worsening droughts and raging wildfires." hey might as well be calling on me to sprout wings and fly to Canada for the summer," Sen. Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), a climate change skeptic, said of the actions urged by the report. Issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the report found that the world is rapidly running out of time to scale back carbon emissions to keep planetary warming within 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels. If the flow of greenhouse gases continues to stream into the atmosphere at the current rate, the IPCC determined, the global mean temperature will likely rise to the 1.5-degree mark sometime between 2030 and 2052. Such a rise in global mean temperatures within that time frame would mean calamitous flooding of small islands and major coastal metropolises like New York City, the report said. Warming beyond that level, to 2 degrees and over, would significantly exacerbate such disasters. The report's authors projected that staying at or below 1.5 degrees Celsius will require slashing the world's greenhouse gas emissions by 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030 ― and reaching net zero carbon emissions by 2050 ― targets that many GOP lawmakers brushed off as infeasible." here's not enough money in the world to pay for that," Kennedy said. "That's the problem with the U.N., that they come up with these policy ideas that are just 'La La Land.'""How is that new? They've said the same thing before," Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said, adding that his responsibility was to "balance those interests raised in that report with (his state's) broader economic and security interests." t hasn't been on my finance agenda or banking agenda," Scott said, referring to the Senate committees he serves on and the issues on which he focuses his attention. The IPCC recommended several steps needed to reverse carbon dioxide emissions, including replacing the use of fossil fuels with renewable energy such as wind and solar, as well as growing more forests, which naturally recycles CO2. It also said that employing new technologies to suck carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere will be necessary to achieve the emissions target." e should be doing everything we can," said Natalie Mahowald, a climate scientist at Cornell University and lead author of the report's first chapter. "That's the main thing about getting to (the emmissions goal) is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society." Only one GOP senator approached by HuffPost signaled an openness to delving into the report: Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.). As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, he said he was looking at the "possibility" of holding a hearing on the matter. The Senate GOP majority, likely to remain in effect after November's elections, is dominated by lawmakers skeptical of human-caused climate change, such as Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.). He once threw a snowball on the Senate floor in an attempt to prove that global warming is nothing more than a hoax. Coming from a top oil-producing state, Inhofe has long railed against the IPCC as a biased, left-wing organization. On Wednesday, he claimed that the panel, recognized by others as the world's leading authority on climate change, had been "totally discredited" and dismissed its latest findings.	True
650	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-08-14	If they are reduced significantly, this could release pressure on the volcanoes that lie below and lead to eruptions that could further destabilise the ice sheets and enhance sea level rises that are already affecting our oceans."	And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences, they have warned.	"Anything that causes the melting of ice – which an eruption certainly would – is likely to speed up the flow of ice into the sea."	heory suggests that this is occurring because, without ice sheets on top of them, there is a release of pressure on the regions' volcanoes and they become more active."	However, he pointed to one alarming trend: "The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering – after the end of the last ice age.		Scientists discover 91 volcanoes below Antarctic ice sheet... Scientists have uncovered the largest volcanic region on Earth – two kilometres below the surface of the vast ice sheet that covers west Antarctica. The project, by Edinburgh University researchers, has revealed almost 100 volcanoes – with the highest as tall as the Eiger, which stands at almost 4,000 metres in Switzerland. Geologists say this huge region is likely to dwarf that of east Africa's volcanic ridge, currently rated the densest concentration of volcanoes in the world. And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences, they have warned. "If one of these volcanoes were to erupt it could further destabilise west Antarctica's ice sheets," said glacier expert Robert Bingham, one of the paper's authors. "Anything that causes the melting of ice – which an eruption certainly would – is likely to speed up the flow of ice into the sea." he big question is: how active are these volcanoes? That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible." The Edinburgh volcano survey, reported in the Geological Society's special publications series, involved studying the underside of the west Antarctica ice sheet for hidden peaks of basalt rock similar to those produced by the region's other volcanoes. Their tips actually lie above the ice and have been spotted by polar explorers over the past century. But how many lie below the ice? This question was originally asked by the team's youngest member, Max Van Wyk de Vries, an undergraduate at the university's school of geosciences and a self-confessed volcano fanatic. He set up the project with the help of Bingham. Their study involved analysing measurements made by previous surveys, which involved the use of ice-penetrating radar, carried either by planes or land vehicles, to survey strips of the west Antarctic ice. The results were then compared with satellite and database records and geological information from other aerial surveys. "Essentially, we were looking for evidence of volcanic cones sticking up into the ice," Bingham said. After the team had collated the results, it reported a staggering 91 previously unknown volcanoes, adding to the 47 others that had been discovered over the previous century of exploring the region. These newly discovered volcanoes range in height from 100 to 3,850 metres. All are covered in ice, which sometimes lies in layers that are more than 4km thick in the region. These active peaks are concentrated in a region known as the west Antarctic rift system, which stretches 3,500km from Antarctica's Ross ice shelf to the Antarctic peninsula." e were amazed," Bingham said. "We had not expected to find anything like that number. We have almost trebled the number of volcanoes known to exist in west Antarctica. We also suspect there are even more on the bed of the sea that lies under the Ross ice shelf, so that I think it is very likely this region will turn out to be the densest region of volcanoes in the world, greater even than east Africa, where mounts Nyiragongo, Kilimanjaro, Longonot and all the other active volcanoes are concentrated." The discovery is particularly important because the activity of these volcanoes could have crucial implications for the rest of the planet. If one erupts, it could further destabilise some of the region's ice sheets, which have already been affected by global warming. Meltwater outflows into the Antarctic ocean could trigger sea level rises. "We just don't know about how active these volcanoes have been in the past," Bingham said. However, he pointed to one alarming trend: "The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering – after the end of the last ice age. These places include Iceland and Alaska." heory suggests that this is occurring because, without ice sheets on top of them, there is a release of pressure on the regions' volcanoes and they become more active." And this could happen in west Antarctica, where significant warming in the region caused by climate change has begun to affect its ice sheets. If they are reduced significantly, this could release pressure on the volcanoes that lie below and lead to eruptions that could further destabilise the ice sheets and enhance sea level rises that are already affecting our oceans." t is something we will have to watch closely," Bingham said.	False
145	politicususa	left_bias	2019-04-29	he greatest threat we face, which will test our country, our democracy, every single one of us, is climate change," O'Rourke said in a statement.	Still, the upstart Sunrise Movement, the youth-led group that has pushed the Green New Deal into the spotlight, said O'Rourke's plan fell short of what they said scientists said was necessary to fend off the worst impacts of climate change.	The net-zero goal in O'Rourke's and other climate plans means reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions 100 percent or offsetting them by as much as is emitted."	Other candidates have announced some specific policy measures related to climate change and the environment in recent weeks, and Warren has unveiled a public lands policy that would ban new drilling and mining leases on federal lands.	The Green New Deal calls for achieving net zero emissions within a decade, not by mid-century, as O'Rourke's plan sets out."		Democratic presidential candidate O'Rourke lays out $5 trillion climate plan (Reuters) – U.S. presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke on Monday laid out one of the most detailed climate policies so far in the crowded Democratic field, calling for a $5 trillion investment in clean energy technology and infrastructure over 10 years with a goal of reaching net-zero emissions by 2050.O'Rourke, the former Texas congressman, made climate change the focus of his first major policy announcement, unveiling the plan ahead of a campaign stop meeting with scientists at the iconic Yosemite National Park in California." he greatest threat we face, which will test our country, our democracy, every single one of us, is climate change," O'Rourke said in a statement. The plan lays out a series of executive actions that would reverse the "energy dominance" policies of President Donald Trump, who has been rolling back environmental regulation to increase domestic fossil fuels production.O'Rourke's measures include U.S. re-entry into the Paris Climate Agreement, ordering a reduction in methane emissions from oil and gas operations, halting new drilling leases on federal land and restoring pollution standards for power plants. His plan also calls for raising taxes on the wealthy and on corporations to help fund some $5 trillion in projects to modernize infrastructure and clean energy technology over a decade. The net-zero goal in O'Rourke's and other climate plans means reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions 100 percent or offsetting them by as much as is emitted." he bill will be funded with the revenues generated by structural changes to the tax code that ensure corporations and the wealthiest among us pay their fair share and that we finally end the tens of billions of dollars of tax breaks currently given to fossil fuel companies," O'Rourke's legislative proposal states. The plan appears to align with some of the principles of the Green New Deal, a bold set of policy goals introduced by congressional Democrats, that would transform the U.S. energy economy to 100 percent renewable sources by 2030, using federal funds to invest in modern infrastructure and green job programs. Most of the Democratic presidential candidates, including Bernie Sanders, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, have embraced the Green New Deal, which has become a focus of attacks by the Republican party, which calls it unfeasible. Other candidates have announced some specific policy measures related to climate change and the environment in recent weeks, and Warren has unveiled a public lands policy that would ban new drilling and mining leases on federal lands. Environmental group the League of Conservation Voters on Monday praised O'Rourke's plan, saying that it offered "the kind of leadership we need from the next president." Still, the upstart Sunrise Movement, the youth-led group that has pushed the Green New Deal into the spotlight, said O'Rourke's plan fell short of what they said scientists said was necessary to fend off the worst impacts of climate change. The Green New Deal calls for achieving net zero emissions within a decade, not by mid-century, as O'Rourke's plan sets out." eto claims to support the Green New Deal, but his plan is out of line with the timeline it lays out and the scale of action that scientists say is necessary to take here in the United States to give our generation a livable future," said Sunrise founder Varshini Prakash.	True
667	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-08-29	In fact, the challenge before us is a case study in market failures ― to suggest that market-based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is naïve, at best.	This summer, in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington, California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state, this nation, and the world.	Most importantly, policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities.	We need all of these tools to be able to reduce pollution, drive technological innovation, create jobs and expand economic growth, all while keeping costs stable for consumers and businesses.	However, it's hardly the only weapon in our climate arsenal, and California simply cannot meet our world-leading greenhouse gas reduction goals with cap and trade alone.	Other policies promoting energy and fuel efficiency are also major tools driving both innovation and pollution reductions. <sep> The families sick from breathing dirty air surely would not consider California's air quality regulations "superfluous". <sep> As California edges out the United Kingdom to become the fifth largest economy in the world, with the state unemployment rate at historic lows, sound budgeting and a robust social safety net, we've proven that strong climate and clean air policies can go hand-in-hand with economic growth. <sep> It sends a price signal to industries to reduce their carbon pollution, while generating billions of dollars in revenue for investments in clean transportation and direct pollution reduction. <sep> That's why California's comprehensive suite of climate policies, including our mandates to generate clean energy, improve energy efficiency, and reduce vehicle tailpipe emissions, strikes a necessary balance between market-based and direct regulations. <sep> 	California's Multi-Front Fight On Climate California continues to pass the most ambitious laws in the world to expand clean energy and combat climate change. This summer, in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington, California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state, this nation, and the world. Cap and trade is an important tool in California's climate policy portfolio. It sends a price signal to industries to reduce their carbon pollution, while generating billions of dollars in revenue for investments in clean transportation and direct pollution reduction. However, it's hardly the only weapon in our climate arsenal, and California simply cannot meet our world-leading greenhouse gas reduction goals with cap and trade alone. In fact, the challenge before us is a case study in market failures ― to suggest that market-based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is naïve, at best. That's why California's comprehensive suite of climate policies, including our mandates to generate clean energy, improve energy efficiency, and reduce vehicle tailpipe emissions, strikes a necessary balance between market-based and direct regulations. As California edges out the United Kingdom to become the fifth largest economy in the world, with the state unemployment rate at historic lows, sound budgeting and a robust social safety net, we've proven that strong climate and clean air policies can go hand-in-hand with economic growth. Thanks to policies mandating clean energy development, California's electric grid is one of the least carbon-intensive in the world. We've turned clean energy into a pillar of our economy that now employs over half a million Californians ― ten times the number of Americans employed in the coal industry. Clean, renewable energy is also now cheaper than fossil fuels on a straight dollar-for-dollar basis in many parts of America. That's why "red" states like Texas, Oklahoma, and Iowa are quietly spending more on zero-carbon wind energy than ever before. Clean energy isn't just good for the planet; it's good for consumers' monthly utility bills and for the economy. Setting a target of 100 percent clean, renewable energy, as my Senate Bill 100 will do if signed into law, means that California will continue to be the world's clean energy superpower. Other policies promoting energy and fuel efficiency are also major tools driving both innovation and pollution reductions. Our decades-long commitment to energy efficiency, which began with Jerry Brown's first stint as Governor, has not only kept our state's electricity consumption flat despite a steadily rising population, it has kept Californians' energy-spending among the lowest in the nation. These programs create local jobs, incentivize massive private-sector investment, and are a big reason why California remains America's capital of innovation. Most importantly, policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities. California is home to six of the ten most polluted cities in America for ozone and particle pollution, according to the American Lung Association. The families sick from breathing dirty air surely would not consider California's air quality regulations "superfluous". We need all of these tools to be able to reduce pollution, drive technological innovation, create jobs and expand economic growth, all while keeping costs stable for consumers and businesses. Taken together, they provide a comprehensive platform for clean energy and climate policy that can serve as a golden standard and a beacon of hope for the rest of the planet until common sense returns to the White House.	True
125	politicususa	left_bias	2019-05-14	This would be dT, dt where capital "T," is temperature and, and the lower case is time, or congressman's staff if out there, that's the problem.	The rate of global warming, if it was even detectable at this scale with about .1 degrees celsius every thousand or maybe even every 10,000 years.	If you're really an electrical engineer, here's the problem.	It is a race against time, and the longer that Republicans deny and delay, the worse it will be for our planet, our people, and our future.	So congressman, it's like this in calculus terms.		Bill Nye Lights Up GOP Congressman Who Pretends Not To Understand Climate Change Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer, but he doesn't understand climate change. And the guy that I saw the other day, if I may take a moment — was congressman Thomas Massey from Kentucky, and he is an electrical engineer. He says on his website he claims to be an inventor and he acted as though he cannot grasp this he focused on the idea that 800,000 years ago there was a higher level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere than there is today, and how do we know that? By looking at the ice cores or the ancient atmospheres in the ancient ice. I presume you don't watch MSNBC…A member of his staff might. That's what I'm hoping for. I'm hoping for. So congressman or the congressman's staff, here's the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off that's been debunked. No, it hasn't been debunked. It's a fact. If you're really an electrical engineer, here's the problem. The rate of global warming, if it was even detectable at this scale with about .1 degrees celsius every thousand or maybe even every 10,000 years. Now it's that .1 degree Celsius every decade. So congressman, it's like this in calculus terms. The rate of temperature getting bigger is very high. This would be dT, dt where capital "T," is temperature and, and the lower case is time, or congressman's staff if out there, that's the problem. This looks like an exaggerated hockey stick because it is. It's the speed. The Trump administration recently called a science a "Democrat thing," so no one should expect the Republican Party to get won over into believing facts again, but Bill Nye laid it all out nice and easy. The temperature is rising quickly. It is a race against time, and the longer that Republicans deny and delay, the worse it will be for our planet, our people, and our future. For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	False
594	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-03	s a responsible developing country, China's plan, determination and policy to tackle climate change is resolute," Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the Associated Press.	It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when that's less politically popular in China.	Why the push abroad?	China also promised to "peak" greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 as part of the Paris climate agreement.	China 'Greens' Its Economy By Funding Massive Coal Projects In Pakistan China is helping Pakistan build up its energy sector, including a $3.5 billion joint venture to extract 1.3 gigawatts worth of coal in the Thar desert.		China 'Greens' Its Economy By Funding Massive Coal Projects In Pakistan China is helping Pakistan build up its energy sector, including a $3.5 billion joint venture to extract 1.3 gigawatts worth of coal in the Thar desert. Pakistan plans to use Thar brown coal to bring electricity to the millions of people living in energy poverty or suffering through daily blackouts. The country could get 24 percent of its electricity from coal by 2020 with the help of China. It's one of many coal projects China is backing abroad, while it cuts coal mining and power generation at home to fight pollution. China also promised to "peak" greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 as part of the Paris climate agreement. China's energy ministry canceled more than 100 coal-fired power plants that were being planned or being built in January. The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March." s a responsible developing country, China's plan, determination and policy to tackle climate change is resolute," Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the Associated Press. China's coal use fell nearly 5 percent last year, but the country still gets 62 percent of its electricity from coal-fired power plants. The country's cut in domestic coal use comes as they fund coal projects abroad, including the Engro mine in the Thar desert. Another Chinese joint venture plans to build another coal project near the Engro mine in June. Another block of coal will begin production for electricity generation by 2019, reports the Salt Law Tribune. China has also backed coal-fired power plants in Southeast Asian countries, including Vietnam. China is involved in financing or building at least 79 coal-fired power projects around the world. The total generating capacity of those projects is 52 gigawatts. Why the push abroad? It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when that's less politically popular in China. Coal workers also travel to these projects, keeping them from losing their jobs. The Engro mine, for example, has 350 Chinese workers, and the return on equity for Chinese investors is about 30 percent, according to the Salt Lake Tribune. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
686	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-10-16	he yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention, consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes," he said.	hanks to scientific knowledge, we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods, such as the Paris Accord, which sadly, some have abandoned," he said.	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the "prerequisites" for dealing with world food security, Francis also said."	e see consequences of climate change every day," the pope said in an address to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) at its headquarters in Rome."	In his Spanish-language address to the U.N. agency, Francis denounced "negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems, the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet, and the greed for profit."	The United States is the only country out of 195 signatories to have withdrawn from the accord, which aims to cut emissions blamed for the rise in temperatures.U.S. <sep> 	Pope implicitly criticizes U.S. for leaving Paris climate accord ROME (Reuters) – Pope Francis implicitly criticized the United States on Monday for pulling out of the Paris agreement on climate change, praising it as a means to control the devastating effects of global warming. The United States is the only country out of 195 signatories to have withdrawn from the accord, which aims to cut emissions blamed for the rise in temperatures.U.S. President Donald Trump announced the decision in June shortly after visiting the pope, a strong supporter of the deal. At the time a Vatican official said the move was a "slap in the face" for the pope and the Vatican." e see consequences of climate change every day," the pope said in an address to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) at its headquarters in Rome." hanks to scientific knowledge, we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods, such as the Paris Accord, which sadly, some have abandoned," he said. Under the deal, United States had committed to reducing its own emissions by 26 to 28 percent, compared with 2005 levels, by 2025. Many world leaders have criticized Trump for deciding to pull out. In his Spanish-language address to the U.N. agency, Francis denounced "negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems, the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet, and the greed for profit." Agriculture ministers and diplomats from the Group of Seven (G7) world power nations attended the gathering, which marked FAO's World Food Day." e can't be satisfied by saying 'someone else will do it,'" the pope said. Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the "prerequisites" for dealing with world food security, Francis also said." he yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention, consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes," he said.	True
188	usatoday	left_center_bias	2019-08-28	But as breathing-related ailments appear to be on the rise, attention to the issue has largely been overshadowed by growing acrimony between Brazil and European countries seeking to help fight Amazon fires and protect a region seen as vital to the health of the planet.	he kids are affected the most.	The number of people treated for respiratory issues increased sharply in recent days at the local Cosme e Damia Children's hospital."	I'm concerned because it affects their health."	The dry weather and the smoke causes many problems on children, such as pneumonia, coughing and secretion," Daniel Pires, a pediatrician and the hospital's adjunct-director told the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper.	ermany had already been helping through NGOs and they couldn't prevent this," Pereira said. <sep> Others said in an open letter that the government's discourse and measures are leading to a "collapse in federal environmental management and stimulate environmental crimes inside and outside the Amazon." <sep> "They have problems breathing. <sep> Amazon fires: Respiratory problems spike, kids affected the most PORTO VELHO, Brazil – Lingering smoke in the Amazon caused concern Tuesday among Brazilians who say that respiratory problems – particularly among children and the elderly – have increased as fires in the region rage." <sep> More than 500 employees from the environmental regulator IBAMA signed the letter and included a list of emergency measures they recommended, including more qualified management and employees, and a greater budget and increased autonomy. <sep> But for now, more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear. <sep> "From Aug. 1 to Aug. 10, the median (number) of cases was about 120 to 130 children with respiratory problems. <sep> Experts there said that when exposed to smoke, residents can suffer from rhinitis, sinus and respiratory problems like asthma and bronchitis, while chronic exposure can also lead to pulmonary illnesses, including lung emphysema." <sep> In a video message, Brazilian novelist Paulo Coelho offered an apology to France for what he called Bolsonaro's "hysteria," saying the Brazilian government had resorted to insults to dodge responsibility for the Amazon fires. <sep> But it's not. <sep> 	Amazon fires: Respiratory problems spike, kids affected the most PORTO VELHO, Brazil – Lingering smoke in the Amazon caused concern Tuesday among Brazilians who say that respiratory problems – particularly among children and the elderly – have increased as fires in the region rage." he kids are affected the most. They're coughing a lot," said Elane Diaz, a nurse in the Rondonia state capital of Porto Velho, as she waited for a doctor's appointment at the city's 9 of July hospital with her 5-year-old-son Eduardo. "They have problems breathing. I'm concerned because it affects their health." The number of people treated for respiratory issues increased sharply in recent days at the local Cosme e Damia Children's hospital." his period has been very tough. The dry weather and the smoke causes many problems on children, such as pneumonia, coughing and secretion," Daniel Pires, a pediatrician and the hospital's adjunct-director told the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper. "From Aug. 1 to Aug. 10, the median (number) of cases was about 120 to 130 children with respiratory problems. From Aug. 11 to (Aug. 20) it went up to 280 cases." Amazon fires: What would the Earth be like without the Amazon rainforest?Growing fears over the health impacts are emerging as the number of fires in Brazil surges, with more than 77,000 documented by the country's National Space Research Institute in the last year. About half of the fires occurred in the Amazon region, with most in the past month. But as breathing-related ailments appear to be on the rise, attention to the issue has largely been overshadowed by growing acrimony between Brazil and European countries seeking to help fight Amazon fires and protect a region seen as vital to the health of the planet. At a summit in France this week, G-7 nations pledged to help fight the flames and protect the rainforest by offering $20 million, in addition to a separate $12 million from Britain and $11 million from Canada. But Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, a far-right climate skeptic who took office this year with a promise to boost development in Latin America's biggest economy, questioned whether offers of international aid mask a plot to exploit the Amazon's resources and weaken Brazilian growth. On Tuesday, he said that his French counterpart President Emmanuel Macron had called him a liar and would have to apologize before Brazil considers accepting rainforest aid. Macron has to retract those comments "and then we can speak," Bolsonaro said. In a video message, Brazilian novelist Paulo Coelho offered an apology to France for what he called Bolsonaro's "hysteria," saying the Brazilian government had resorted to insults to dodge responsibility for the Amazon fires. Meanwhile, within Brazil, a number of people said they supported Bolsonaro despite local and international criticism of his handling of the crisis, exposing a divide that has split the country. Grace Quale, a hospital laboratory technician who attended a service at an evangelical church on Sunday, said that critics "want to overthrow our president," and that she didn't see a link between Bolsonaro's environmental policies and the number of people getting treatment for respiratory problems. Mona Lisa Pereira, an agronomist, also said criticism of Brazil's government was skewed." ermany had already been helping through NGOs and they couldn't prevent this," Pereira said. "It seems like this is the fire of a lifetime. But it's not. We have fires every year." Others said in an open letter that the government's discourse and measures are leading to a "collapse in federal environmental management and stimulate environmental crimes inside and outside the Amazon." More than 500 employees from the environmental regulator IBAMA signed the letter and included a list of emergency measures they recommended, including more qualified management and employees, and a greater budget and increased autonomy. The Amazon has experienced an increased rate of fires during drought periods in the last 20 years, but the phenomenon this year is "unusual" because drought has not yet hit, said Laura Schneider of Rutgers University-New Brunswick. Schneider, an associate professor in the geography department, said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation, and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years. While many of the recorded fires this year were set in already deforested areas by people clearing land for cultivation or pasture, Brazil government figures show that they are much more widespread this year, suggesting the threat to the vast Amazon ecosystem is intensifying. But for now, more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear. The world's largest rainforest is a major absorber of carbon dioxide, considered a critical defense against rising temperatures and other disruptions caused by climate change. The government in the Amazonian state of Rondonia has warned that the burning of land can produce smoke that can "greatly influence atmospheric pollution, putting the life of many at risk." Experts there said that when exposed to smoke, residents can suffer from rhinitis, sinus and respiratory problems like asthma and bronchitis, while chronic exposure can also lead to pulmonary illnesses, including lung emphysema." e've seen that (Porto Velho) has been taken over by smoke, so inhaling those antigens and pathogens can harm the whole city's population," Ana Carolina Terra Cruz, a specialist in pulmonary illnesses, told the state government website. Deep ramifications: Trump would cost General Motors billions if he actually orders business out of ChinaOn Tuesday, some clouds and a blue sky were partly visible in the Porto Velho morning light. But by the afternoon, haze had again settled, with smoke so thick that it darkened the usually blazing sun. Pereira, the agronomist, said that smoke was "everywhere." It's bad for everyone," she said. "Not just our children."	True
384	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-11-30	Sher, who was with Sher Leff at the time, alleged Pawa's group, Pawa Law Group, failed to distribute money from a settlement in the case.	They also accuse energy companies of trying to downplay the harms their products allegedly cause.	Local governments suing fossil fuel interests argue state nuisance and trespassing laws, which have sometimes been applied to pollution, also apply to global warming.	Sher countersued in 2014, arguing Pawa entered into a secondary oral agreement that the legal fees associated with the case would be delivered proportionally.	Hagens Berman and Sher Edling's drama comes after New York filed a lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the company's oil products pose on the climate.		EXCLUSIVE: Docs Suggest A Personal Vendetta Between Two Lawyers Might Be Fueling Climate Crusade Two of the attorneys representing various cities in climate litigation against oil companies have a history of suing and counter-suing each other over personal squabbles, according to documents obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation. Environmental attorneys Vic Sher and Matt Pawa got into a multi-million-dollar legal dispute in 2014 stemming from a lawsuit they both worked on against ExxonMobil. Sher, who was with Sher Leff at the time, alleged Pawa's group, Pawa Law Group, failed to distribute money from a settlement in the case. Pawa, in turn, argued in a lawsuit that Sher was the one cheating him out of millions of dollars. Sher, who is now with Sher Edling, eventually paid Pawa about $6 million for the retributions, court documents show. The disagreement stems from a lawsuit New Hampshire filed in 2013 alleging Exxon negligently contaminated the state's water ways with 2 billion gallons of MTBE, a gas additive experts believe poisons drinking water. The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides. The state initially sued 26 oil companies in 2003 over the contamination. New Hampshire previously collected over $130 million for MTBE cleanup from the other defendants. The jury eventually awarded the state damages of $816 million. Exxon was made to pay roughly 29 percent of market share, which equaled roughly $236,372,664 at the time of the lawsuit. New Hampshire's Supreme Court upheld the decision in 2015 after Exxon appealed the ruling to the top court.A dispute arose between Pawa and Sher in 2012 relating to the division of attorneys' fees between them under a contract with New Hampshire, which retained both to represent the state in the Exxon contamination case. A panel eventually awarded Pawa nearly $6 million for breaching the agreement. Sher Leff refused to comply with the final award, including payment of the amounts awarded to Pawa's law firm, even while Sher Leff pocketed more than $27 million in attorneys' fees from the Exxon case. Sher countersued in 2014, arguing Pawa entered into a secondary oral agreement that the legal fees associated with the case would be delivered proportionally. Sher's case was dismissed. Neither Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP, a California-based law firm that now employs Pawa, nor Sher Edling responded to TheDCNF's request for comment about how the nearly five-year-old lawsuit is affecting their current legal pursuits of Exxon. Both law firms — Sher Edling and Hagens Berman — are barnstorming the country, convincing cities to sue energy companies for allegedly contributing to damage caused by climate change. The rivalry between the two attorneys heated up Nov. 26 after San Francisco and Oakland fired Hagens Berman and hired Sher Edling to represent the cities as they appeal a court's decision to dismiss their lawsuits against Exxon. Hagens Berman is handling King County, Washington's lawsuit against five major oil companies. The California-based firm was also behind a now-dismissed climate lawsuit brought by New York City. (RELATED: Anti-Exxon Attorneys Suffer Setback Amid Rash Of Legal Defeats)Hagens Berman's fee would have been 23.5 percent of any winnings from its cases with San Francisco and Oakland. Hagens Berman stood to earn possibly billions of dollars in contingency fees depending on the total winnings, had San Francisco, Oakland or New York City won their global warming suits. Sher Edling, for its part, is handling climate lawsuits for six California cities and counties. Local governments suing fossil fuel interests argue state nuisance and trespassing laws, which have sometimes been applied to pollution, also apply to global warming. They also accuse energy companies of trying to downplay the harms their products allegedly cause. Hagens Berman and Sher Edling's drama comes after New York filed a lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the company's oil products pose on the climate. The lawsuit follows over three years of investigation first orchestrated by former Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who resigned in April over abuse allegations from former romantic partners. The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation. (RELATED: SEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy)Exxon engaged in a "longstanding fraudulent scheme" to deceive investors, analysts and underwriters "concerning the company's management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulation," the lawsuit notes. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
11	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-08-23	Mr Bolsonaro largely ignored the issue at first and even attempted to blame environmental charities, accusing them of lighting the fires.	Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said: 'The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation, of support for agribusiness, of increasing pastures.	French President Emmanuel Macron had called the wildfires an international crisis and said the leaders of the G7 group of nations should hold urgent discussions about them during their summit in France this weekend.	The neighbouring country of Bolivia is also struggling with wildfires, many believed to have been set by farmers clearing land for cultivation.	'The fires have been raging for around three weeks and an area the size of a football pitch is said to be lost every minute.		Tribe looks on helplessly as rainforest is destroyed by man and fire... These devastating images show an indigenous family surveying the ruins of their homeland in the Amazon rainforest. Surrounded by dry soil and fallen timber, their native land has been all-but destroyed by rapid deforestation. During the day, the usually-fierce sun is obscured by a thick, grey smoke caused by deliberately-lit wildfires that are raging out of control across Brazil. The smell is of barbecue, caused by vast swathes of the world's largest tropical rainforest going up in flames. Raimundo Mura, indigenous leader with the Mura tribe who live in a reserve near Humaita, Amazonas state said: 'For the forest, I will go on until my last drop of blood.'All the trees had lives, they all needed to live, each in their own place.'For us this is destruction. What is being done here is an atrocity against us.'The rainforest is home to some one million indigenous people and three million species of plants and animals. But it is being decimated at record rates – burnt or cleared for farming and mining. Scientists have recorded more than 74,000 fires in Brazil this year – an 84% increase compared to the same period last year. They can now be seen from space and have plunged the largest city Sao Paulo into darkness because of the heavy smoke. In total, the blazes have created a layer of smoke estimated to be 1.2 million square miles wide that spreads across Latin America to the Atlantic coast. Handech Wakana Mura, another local leader within the forest, said: 'With each passing day we see the destruction advance – deforestation, invasion and logging.'We are sad because the forest is dying at every moment.'We feel the climate changing and the world needs the forest.'We need the forest and our children need the forest.'Environmentalists and academics have blamed the Brazilian government, under far-right President Jair Bolsonaro, for a sharp increase in Amazon deforestation. The climate change sceptic swept to power in January promising to open up the Amazon to mining and farming. His rhetoric is said to have emboldened farmers to burn large sections of the rainforest for beef and soy production. Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said: 'The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation, of support for agribusiness, of increasing pastures.'The fires have been raging for around three weeks and an area the size of a football pitch is said to be lost every minute. Global concern is growing as the rainforest is key to tackling global warming because of the way it absorbs carbon dioxide and releases oxygen. Mr Bolsonaro largely ignored the issue at first and even attempted to blame environmental charities, accusing them of lighting the fires. Opposition MPs have said the raging infernos are a 'crime against humanity' and blamed his policies for fuelling the blazes. French President Emmanuel Macron had called the wildfires an international crisis and said the leaders of the G7 group of nations should hold urgent discussions about them during their summit in France this weekend. Mr Macron tweeted: 'Our house is burning. Literally. The Amazon rain forest – the lungs which produces 20% of our planet's oxygen – is on fire.'Mr Bolsonaro hit back at Macron, complaining he was the subject of a smear campaign and the media had exploited the fires to undermine his government. His chief of staff, Onyx Lorenzoni, also accused European countries of exaggerating environmental problems in Brazil in order to disrupt its commercial interests. Relations between Europe and Brazil are at a low, which has worried the powerful agriculture sector. Last week, Norway joined Germany in halting $60 million worth of Amazon protection subsidies, accusing Brazil of turning its back on the fight against deforestation. French and German leaders have also threatened not to ratify a trade deal between the European Union and Mercosur countries (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay) to pressure Brazil into complying with its environmental pledges within the Paris Climate Agreement. In contrast, the UK is currently on a trade mission in Brazil attempting to forge closer ties post-Brexit. The neighbouring country of Bolivia is also struggling with wildfires, many believed to have been set by farmers clearing land for cultivation.	False
134	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-09-18	But zeroing out the country's planet-heating emissions by mid-century requires a transformation in agriculture as dramatic as shifting the energy sector away from fossil fuels, the letter says."	e believe these climate goals are achievable," the letter argues, "but only if the GND includes policies that spur two large-scale transitions: the transition away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy alternatives, and the transition away from industrial agriculture toward family farm-based organic and regenerative farming and land-use practices that improve soil health and draw down and sequester carbon."	It also hosted a Wednesday morning press conference in Washington.A month ago, the United Nations released a dire new report urging major changes to food production and land management and warning that emissions cuts alone will fall short of halting catastrophic global warming.	e call on Congress to put the 'Green' in the Green New Deal," Wednesday's letter reads, "by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this country's middle class, to make family farming economically viable again, and to help reverse climate change and improve America's air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again."	Yet even as farmers reel from the effects of President Donald Trump's trade war with China, Democratic candidates are far from guaranteed their votes.		10,000 Farmers And Ranchers Endorse Green New Deal In Letter To Congress Nearly 10,000 farmers and ranchers are endorsing the Green New Deal as the climate policy battleground expands from the oil fields to the agricultural fields. In a letter sent to Congress on Wednesday morning, the newly formed bipartisan coalition U.S. Farmers & Ranchers for a Green New Deal threw its weight behind the sweeping industrial plan outlined in a resolution that Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) proposed in February. But zeroing out the country's planet-heating emissions by mid-century requires a transformation in agriculture as dramatic as shifting the energy sector away from fossil fuels, the letter says." e believe these climate goals are achievable," the letter argues, "but only if the GND includes policies that spur two large-scale transitions: the transition away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy alternatives, and the transition away from industrial agriculture toward family farm-based organic and regenerative farming and land-use practices that improve soil health and draw down and sequester carbon." The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10,000 members. Regeneration International, a sustainable farming nonprofit, organized the missive with the climate justice group Sunrise Movement. It also hosted a Wednesday morning press conference in Washington.A month ago, the United Nations released a dire new report urging major changes to food production and land management and warning that emissions cuts alone will fall short of halting catastrophic global warming. Taking cues from those pushing for a Green New Deal, several Democratic presidential hopefuls have made farming practices central to their climate proposals. Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) earmarked $410 billion in his Green New Deal proposal to help "farms of all sizes transition to ecologically regenerative agricultural practices." Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) called for breaking up agriculture monopolies as part of her broad rural platform. South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg vowed to "support farmers" by "paying them to capture carbon." Yet even as farmers reel from the effects of President Donald Trump's trade war with China, Democratic candidates are far from guaranteed their votes. Farmers supported the Trump administration's proposal last week to finalize the rollback of the Obama-era Waters of the U.S. rule, which had put new restrictions on which waterways agribusiness could pollute. Early on, Republican opposition to the Green New Deal itself coalesced around the idea that such a program would ban beef production, although supporters have clearly said it would not." e call on Congress to put the 'Green' in the Green New Deal," Wednesday's letter reads, "by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this country's middle class, to make family farming economically viable again, and to help reverse climate change and improve America's air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again."	True
656	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-04-09	The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels, a result of emissions from human activities; longer growing seasons, a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions; and nitrogen pollution, another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture," the article also claims.	The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people.	In other words, more carbon dioxide, which is being produced by humans at record levels, has improved plant growth, which in turn improves food production for humans and animals.	The researchers' study in Nature provided no proof of the claim global warming is caused by humans or that global warming will cause the severe problems Campbell said it will in the quotes provided by the UC Merced article.	He says despite the researchers' findings, which clearly show global warming helps plants—and thus also helping humans and animals—global warming has many negative effects, too, such as causing "climate change, which will increase flooding of coastal cities, extreme weather and ocean acidification."	The study did, however, show increased carbon-dioxide levels have, generally, helped plants and crops. <sep> Campbell said the evidence shows "a fundamental shift in the Earth's plants" and that "global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race." <sep> 	New global warming study is terrible news for alarmists, good news for plants, animals and people A new study published in the highly influential journal Nature suggests rising global temperatures during the 19th and 20th centuries may be linked to greater plant photosynthesis. The study, conducted by researchers at the University of California at Merced, estimated based on its models "the sum of all plant photosynthesis on Earth grew by 30 percent over the 200-year record captured," according to an article published on the UC Merced website. Photosynthesis is the process of converting carbon dioxide into carbohydrates, which power plants, using sunlight. According to the UC Merced article, "The research did not identify the cause of the increased photosynthesis, but computer models have shown several processes that could, together, create such a large change in global plant growth." The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels, a result of emissions from human activities; longer growing seasons, a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions; and nitrogen pollution, another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture," the article also claims. In other words, more carbon dioxide, which is being produced by humans at record levels, has improved plant growth, which in turn improves food production for humans and animals. Campbell said the evidence shows "a fundamental shift in the Earth's plants" and that "global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race." However, don't too excited, Campbell warns. He says despite the researchers' findings, which clearly show global warming helps plants—and thus also helping humans and animals—global warming has many negative effects, too, such as causing "climate change, which will increase flooding of coastal cities, extreme weather and ocean acidification." The researchers' study in Nature provided no proof of the claim global warming is caused by humans or that global warming will cause the severe problems Campbell said it will in the quotes provided by the UC Merced article. The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people. The study did, however, show increased carbon-dioxide levels have, generally, helped plants and crops.	False
662	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-25	Ninety-seven percent of peer-reviewed research agrees with the conclusion that burning fossil fuels, deforestation and industrial farms are enshrouding the planet in heat-trapping gases, and a research review published last November found significant flaws in the methodologies, assumptions or analyses used by the 3 percent of scientists who concluded otherwise.	But while Trump and Pruitt have begun rolling back regulations on greenhouse gas emissions, so far they have not attempted to undo the 2009 finding that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases pose a threat to human health and the environment ― a conclusion known as the endangerment finding.	On April 20, the day before the March for Science protest in Washington, D.C., New York University physicist Steve Koonin published an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal calling for a red-team, blue-team exercise to "put the 'consensus' to the test, and improve public understanding, through an open, adversarial process."	Rather than debating the regulatory approaches, they want to undermine the conclusion that climate change is a real problem.	"Today's climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations, like China, to save our climate.		Here's The List Of Climate Change Deniers Considered For The EPA's 'Red Team' Debate HuffPost has obtained a list of prominent climate deniers that the Heartland Institute, a right-wing think tank, assembled and submitted to the agency in May. The Illinois-based group, which has ties to the fossil fuel billionaires who run Koch Industries, boasted in July that the White House "reached out" for help identifying scientists for these debates. This appears to be the list the Heartland Institute provided. The names included on the list suggest that the Heartland Institute wants the debate to go directly after the scientific and legal underpinnings of the EPA's regulations on climate change. Rather than debating the regulatory approaches, they want to undermine the conclusion that climate change is a real problem. But while Trump and Pruitt have begun rolling back regulations on greenhouse gas emissions, so far they have not attempted to undo the 2009 finding that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases pose a threat to human health and the environment ― a conclusion known as the endangerment finding. It was the EPA under George W. Bush that first made that determination in response to a 2007 Supreme Court ruling, but it never acted on that finding. The Obama EPA did, and, once that conclusion was reached, the agency was required by law to issue regulations under the Clean Air Act. Ninety-seven percent of peer-reviewed research agrees with the conclusion that burning fossil fuels, deforestation and industrial farms are enshrouding the planet in heat-trapping gases, and a research review published last November found significant flaws in the methodologies, assumptions or analyses used by the 3 percent of scientists who concluded otherwise. Calls for the red-team, blue-team exercise began in April, one month before the date marked on the top of the documents. On April 20, the day before the March for Science protest in Washington, D.C., New York University physicist Steve Koonin published an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal calling for a red-team, blue-team exercise to "put the 'consensus' to the test, and improve public understanding, through an open, adversarial process." The next day, Judith Curry, a retired climatologist known for mocking other scientists as "alarmists," and Anthony Watts, who runs a popular climate change denial blog, endorsed the idea. The next week, Pruitt met with Koonin for an hour, according to schedules published by The Washington Post. The meeting included "about 40 climate scientists, economists, lawyers, and other experts to discuss the possible creation by the Trump administration of a Red Team - Blue Team exercise on climate change," he wrote. He noted this was the second "Red Team briefing," following an initial gathering on June 14 in Washington, D.C. A final summit is scheduled for Nov. 8, the day before the Heartland Institute's America First Energy Conference in Houston. This seems to be the goal of the list, which includes 145 scientists and 60 economists who have long been on the fringes of the climate debate, making their names as contrarians given to bombastic public statements. In his email, Bast said he assembled a list "of around 150 climate experts," which he sent "to folks at EPA in response to their request for recommendations." A source who requested anonymity provided the list to the watchdog Climate Investigations Center, which shared it with HuffPost." ztec priests told people they must cut out their beating hearts to bring better climate for their crops. The people believed them," he wrote in a December 2015 blog post. "Today's climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations, like China, to save our climate. The people believe them." I would go right down to the core, starting with the question, 'How much do human emissions increase atmospheric carbon dioxide?' That's the first assumption the blue team makes, and they have to prove that that's true," he said. "In my opinion, the red team would win that debate on the carbon dioxide." Carlin spent decades as an economist working at the EPA before becoming a conservative media darling for publicly accusing the agency of muzzling his criticism of the endangerment finding. He was never assigned to work on climate change and holds a doctorate in economics, not atmospheric science or climatology, and his comments on the finding were deemed to be the "product of rushed and at times shoddy scholarship," according to a 2009 analysis by The New York Times. Yet he submitted the 93-page report suggesting the research behind human-caused climate change is "more religion than science."	False
104	vox	left_bias	2019-12-16	[NBC29 / CJ Paschall]• Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses.	[Financial Times]• "We're in a very politically difficult time right now where we've got one key world leader denying climate change, so it's very hard to get other countries to move forward when you've got such a critical country playing a spoiling role," said Ian Fry, a delegate from Tuvalu.	[New York Times / Michael Wines and Jose A. Del Real]• Many of these costly efforts surround reaching hard-to-count populations within states, often at the expense of those populations.	While it is supposed to prevent individuals from being identified within data sets, it is skewing data and producing problems in the analysis.	[AP News / Frank Jordans and Aritz Parra]• While the negotiations were meant to shore up the Paris agreement and define the terms on which the signatory countries would reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.	[Vox / Umair Irfan]• The US, along with other major polluters, blocked a nonbinding measure that set higher standards for emissions reduction across the world and left little more than a weak call to action in the final declaration of the event. <sep> [Politico / Zack Colman and Kalina Oroschakoff]• Future negotiations are possible, with the next UN-sponsored conference regarding climate change set to take place in Glasgow but the EU-China summit next September in Leipzig will likely decide the outcome of future global efforts to combat climate change. <sep> The tools are within our reach. <sep> 	Vox Sentences: Climate talks left in the cold The news, but shorter. Your daily wrap-up for the day in news. Subscribe to get Vox Sentences delivered straight to your inbox. This story is part of a group of stories calledVox Sentences is your daily digest for what's happening in the world. Sign up for the Vox Sentences newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox Monday through Friday, or view the Vox Sentences archive for past editions.• UN climate talks ended Sunday without a full agreement of world powers on how to address the imminent threat of global warming. [AP News / Frank Jordans and Aritz Parra]• While the negotiations were meant to shore up the Paris agreement and define the terms on which the signatory countries would reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. But Trump has pulled the US out of the deal, unofficially since the US can't formally withdraw until November 4, 2020, the day after the American presidential election. [Vox / Umair Irfan]• The US, along with other major polluters, blocked a nonbinding measure that set higher standards for emissions reduction across the world and left little more than a weak call to action in the final declaration of the event. [New York Times / Somini Sengupta]• Several other countries who are experiencing climate disasters of their own, such as Australia and Brazil, also participated in gutting the summit. [Financial Times]• "We're in a very politically difficult time right now where we've got one key world leader denying climate change, so it's very hard to get other countries to move forward when you've got such a critical country playing a spoiling role," said Ian Fry, a delegate from Tuvalu. [Politico / Zack Colman and Kalina Oroschakoff]• Future negotiations are possible, with the next UN-sponsored conference regarding climate change set to take place in Glasgow but the EU-China summit next September in Leipzig will likely decide the outcome of future global efforts to combat climate change. [BBC / Matt McGrath]• Vox's Ezra Klein says there is still hope, and time, for us to fight global warming. The tools are within our reach. [Vox / Ezra Klein]• Some states are looking to shell out billions to help the 2020 census effort while others won't even pitch in a dime. [New York Times / Michael Wines and Jose A. Del Real]• Many of these costly efforts surround reaching hard-to-count populations within states, often at the expense of those populations. [NBC29 / CJ Paschall]• Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses. While it is supposed to prevent individuals from being identified within data sets, it is skewing data and producing problems in the analysis. [Roll Call / Michael Macagnone]• The Council on Foreign Relations' Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters: granting political agency, dividing up federal funds, and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations. [Council on Foreign Relations / Andrew Chatzky]• Oklahoma City and other local governments are looking to end food deserts by working with dollar stores. [Wall Street Journal / Talal Ansari]• Harvey Weinstein says he should receive thanks and recognition for helping women in Hollywood advance their careers. [Page Six / Rebecca Rosenberg]• Fox News is rebutting Trump's own claims of good polling numbers. [Vox / Aaron Rupar]• While speaking at the Doha Forum in Qatar, Ivanka Trump answered questions and sent mixed signals about the Middle East plan. [Buzzfeed News / Otillia Steadman]"If a person can accomplish all of that positivity with so little, imagine what they could do with a little bit of support and encouragement." [Terah Lawyer, program coordinator for the Homecoming Project, speaking to the impact of the project]Watch this: What makes Delhi's air so deadlyHow India's air quality plummeted and why it's a danger to the public. [YouTube / Christina Thornell and Mac Schneider]How a denial of tenure at Harvard became a national controversyHealthcare. gov glitches almost ruined the end of open enrollment. Is there a better way?Mitt Romney and Michael Bennet just unveiled a basic income plan for kidsThe reason we're talking about a government shutdown yet again, briefly explained	True
845	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-05-19	Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude (with unusual modesty) that "better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming."	s climate at the breeding grounds changes, birds may be unable to adjust wintering ground departure times and transit speeds sufficiently to match their arrival with altered breeding resource phenology, particularly leaf growth and the closely associated emergence of herbivorous insects," the report warns.	They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort, and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory."	If attributing changes in migratory patterns of songbirds to "global warming" after a mere 12 years of observation strikes readers as highly suspicious, that's probably because it is.	Event attribution—the ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warming—is exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst, even according to true believers.	s for the fate of these migratory birds, that really depends on how far we're willing to go to end manmade climate change," Lant's article predictably concludes." <sep> At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012, one participant argued that, given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims, they are "unjustifiably speculative, basically unverifiable and better not made at all." <sep> Of course, the purpose of studies such as these, which remarkably continue to receive funding, is ultimately practical rather than speculative. <sep> limate change is projected to drive hundreds of bird species to extinction and greatly reduce the ranges of others," the report prophecies, "and is already impacting species richness and composition." <sep> 	Climate Alarmists: Global Warming 'Wreaking Worldwide Havoc' on Migratory Songbirds Warmer temperatures are threatening American songbirds with dwindling numbers due to an inability to successfully breed, a new study from Scientific Reports alleges.A team of researchers studied migratory patterns of songbirds between 2001 and 2012 and claimed that of the 48 North American songbird species that migrate north, nine of these — or almost 20 percent — "didn't reach the grounds by the deadline critical for mating and breeding the next generation of birds," wrote Karla Lant in her summary of the reportPlants in eastern North America are "greening up" sooner than normal because of global warming, the report contends, while plants in the western part of the continent are somehow undergoing the process later. This means that birds such as the Townsend's warbler and the rose-breasted grosbeak "are arriving either too soon and being met with frigid temperatures or too late and missing out on the insect boom that coincides with the new plant growth," Lant stated. Either way, the birds have a much lower chance of surviving and reproducing, the report alleges, so the nine species identified are consequently in danger of dwindling numbers." s climate at the breeding grounds changes, birds may be unable to adjust wintering ground departure times and transit speeds sufficiently to match their arrival with altered breeding resource phenology, particularly leaf growth and the closely associated emergence of herbivorous insects," the report warns. If attributing changes in migratory patterns of songbirds to "global warming" after a mere 12 years of observation strikes readers as highly suspicious, that's probably because it is. Event attribution—the ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warming—is exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst, even according to true believers. At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012, one participant argued that, given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims, they are "unjustifiably speculative, basically unverifiable and better not made at all." Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude (with unusual modesty) that "better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming." Of course, the purpose of studies such as these, which remarkably continue to receive funding, is ultimately practical rather than speculative. They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort, and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory." s for the fate of these migratory birds, that really depends on how far we're willing to go to end manmade climate change," Lant's article predictably concludes." limate change is projected to drive hundreds of bird species to extinction and greatly reduce the ranges of others," the report prophecies, "and is already impacting species richness and composition."	False
150	cnn	left_bias	2019-01-18	By using this alternative approach, we are able to highlight where there are operational risks."	And it flagged the way climate change will create new security challenges in the Arctic, where melting ice means greater access but also greater international competition for the waterways.	The report also raised, very briefly, the logistical challenge weather conditions can create for intelligence collection, surveillance and reconnaissance, as well as recovery and casualty evacuation.	It briefly notes military installations affected drought, particularly in the southwest, and by desertification.	The report acknowledges that "the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to Department of Defense missions, operational plans, and installations."	It lists a few projects the defense department has undertaken with partner countries and notes the need to consider how drought and desertification impact overseas bases and missions. <sep> Pentagon spokesman Lt. Col. Mike Andrews said, "the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to DOD missions, operational plans and installations." <sep> The report is "an inadequate, incomplete, partisan document," said Sen. Jack Reed, the ranking Democratic member of the Armed Services Committee." <sep> The Pentagon report notes that the department "is incorporating climate resilience as a cross-cutting consideration for our planning and decision-making process, and not as a separate program or specific set of actions." <sep> 	Lawmakers lambast Pentagon climate report Washington (CNN) Hurricane Florence ravaged Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune in North Carolina in September, leaving behind an estimated $3.6 billion worth of wreckage. But there's no mention of that in a new Pentagon report detailing the impact of climate change on the defense department. The "Report on Effects of a Changing Climate to the Department of Defense" does not mention Camp Lejeune, the Marine Corps, Hurricane Florence or even the threats posed by extreme weather events -- more destructive storms, more intense rainfall -- that scientists say are more likely given climate change and global warming. Those omissions are just one reason lawmakers greeted the Congressionally mandated report with eviscerating criticism on Friday. The report didn't meet the legal requirement to list the 10 most vulnerable military installations for each service, they said. And despite the global impact of climate change, it didn't list a single US military installation outside the United States. Lawmakers, pointing to President Donald Trump's skepticism about climate change and his administration's steady rollback of measures meant to mitigate the impacts of global warming, were scathing. The report is "an inadequate, incomplete, partisan document," said Sen. Jack Reed, the ranking Democratic member of the Armed Services Committee." We know that climate change is real and impacts the way our Armed Forces carry out their missions in different parts of the globe," Reed said in a statement. "Former Secretary (James) Mattis recognized and affirmed this fact." The Pentagon report follows a January study by the Government Accountability Office that found that under the Trump administration, the State Department removed guidance to overseas missions on how to include climate change risks in their country strategies, particularly in relation to migration. The Pentagon report notes that the department "is incorporating climate resilience as a cross-cutting consideration for our planning and decision-making process, and not as a separate program or specific set of actions." Pentagon spokesman Lt. Col. Mike Andrews said, "the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to DOD missions, operational plans and installations." But Reed noted that despite legal requirements, the Pentagon report simply outlined an alphabetical list of 79 military installations. "The report reads like an introductory primer and carries about as much value as a phonebook," he said. And Rep. Jim Langevin, a Rhode Island Democrat who sits on the House Armed Services Committee, said he was "deeply disappointed." Langevin noted that the "the report comes after a year where the Department suffered nearly $10 billion in damage in just two extreme events at Tyndall Air Force Base and Camp Lejeune—two installations that were not even evaluated." Pentagon spokeswoman Heather Babb said the "report highlights the climate vulnerabilities of the top 79 mission assurance priority installations. By using this alternative approach, we are able to highlight where there are operational risks." The Pentagon did not answer multiple questions from CNN, including: why it failed to meet Congress' request to list the 10 most vulnerable installations, why it mentioned no military installations outside the US or why the climate factors it considered did not include extreme weather, and why Camp Lejeune isn't listed among the 79 installations. Babb also declined to respond to Reed's criticism. The report acknowledges that "the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to Department of Defense missions, operational plans, and installations." It looks at the impact of recurrent flooding, noting that Joint Base Langley in Virginia has seen a 14-inch sea level rise since 1930. It briefly notes military installations affected drought, particularly in the southwest, and by desertification. The report touches on wildfires that came close to Space Launch complexes and a southern California base, as well as thawing permafrost in Alaska. Although no overseas military installations were listed, the report noted the widely recognized impact climate change has on fragile regions, particularly in Africa and Asia, and the instability and conflict it can create. It lists a few projects the defense department has undertaken with partner countries and notes the need to consider how drought and desertification impact overseas bases and missions. The report also raised, very briefly, the logistical challenge weather conditions can create for intelligence collection, surveillance and reconnaissance, as well as recovery and casualty evacuation. And it flagged the way climate change will create new security challenges in the Arctic, where melting ice means greater access but also greater international competition for the waterways.	False
697	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-04-08	The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state, which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables, did too little to force farmers to conserve water.	his drought emergency is over, but the next drought could be around the corner," Brown said in a statement.	That allowed Brown to lift most stipulations of an emergency order he implemented in January 2014, about two years after the conditions crossed the line into drought.	Months of drenching storms and melting snowpack have replenished reservoirs, which began drying up in late 2011.	The drought cost the agricultural economy billions, killed an estimated 100 million trees, led a half-million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water.		California governor declares end to drought emergency LOS ANGELES (Reuters) – One of the worst droughts in California history has officially ended, Governor Jerry Brown declared, but not before it strained the state's farm economy and threatened water supplies for millions of residents. Months of drenching storms and melting snowpack have replenished reservoirs, which began drying up in late 2011. That allowed Brown to lift most stipulations of an emergency order he implemented in January 2014, about two years after the conditions crossed the line into drought. Brown also said the need for conservation continued. Officials will still require some long-term water-use limits imposed last year and are developing water preservation standards for urban agencies." his drought emergency is over, but the next drought could be around the corner," Brown said in a statement. "Conservation must remain a way of life." The drought cost the agricultural economy billions, killed an estimated 100 million trees, led a half-million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water. In April 2015, when the state's snowpack hit its lowest since 1950 at 5 percent of its historic average, Brown stood on a dry mountain that was normally blanketed in snow at that time of year and ordered urban areas to reduce water use by 25 percent. As of last week, the snowpack stood at 150 percent of normal. The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state, which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables, did too little to force farmers to conserve water. For their part, farmers said they received far less water than promised by state and federal authorities. On Friday, the Democratic governor lifted the drought declaration in all counties except four, mostly in the state's agricultural Central Valley." t's worth taking a moment to be grateful for all the rain and snow out there," Felicia Marcus, chair of the State Water Resources Control Board, told reporters on a conference call after the governor's announcement. California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation, among other measures. Even though the drought is officially over, groundwater supplies remain below normal, the Natural Resources Defense Council cautioned in a statement." ear after year, California continues to use more water than is made available by nature," Kate Poole, director of the group's water and wildlife project, said in a statement.	False
740	CBS News	left_center_bias	2017-10-07	Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming.	Even so, the plan has been a factor in a wave of retirements of coal-fired plants, which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power and state mandates promoting energy conservation.	The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers," said Hal Quinn, president and CEO of the National Mining Association.	Previously, the EPA had estimated that by 2030 the Clean Power Plan would prevent 90,000 asthma attacks and up to 3,600 premature deaths a year.	The Obama-era plan would have sharply reduced the number of coal-fired plants, making the grid more vulnerable to reliability concerns and increasing costs with "trivial environmental benefits," Quinn said.	The leaked document casts doubts on those numbers and says the EPA plans to perform updated modeling and analysis of health benefits and other impacts of the rule. <sep> Repealing the Clean Power Plan without a timeline or a commitment to propose a rule to reduce carbon pollution "isn't a step forward, it's a wholesale retreat from EPA's legal, scientific and moral obligation to address the threats of climate change,'" said former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. <sep> 	Trump's EPA to ease emissions restrictions WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is moving to roll back the centerpiece of President Barack Obama's efforts to slow global warming, seeking to ease restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants. In a plan expected to be made public in coming days, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) declared the Obama-era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43-page document, which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry. The EPA's new proposal would make good on Mr. Trump's campaign pledge to unravel Obama's efforts to curb global warming and follows Mr. Trump's promise to pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. The EPA won't prescribe an immediate replacement to the plan, but will seek public comment on whether to curb climate-warming emissions from coal and natural gas power plants.A spokeswoman for EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declined to comment Friday on the authenticity of the leaked document but said the Obama administration "pushed the bounds of their authority so far" that the U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay to prevent the Clean Power Plan from taking effect." Any replacement rule that the Trump administration proposes will be done carefully and properly within the confines of the law," EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman said. The plan was first reported by Bloomberg News. The Obama administration's cost-benefits analysis of the Clean Power Plan was "highly uncertain" in multiple areas, Bowman said, vowing that the Trump administration will present a range of scenarios to the public "in a robust, open and transparent way." Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power-plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following a legal challenge by industry and coal-friendly states. Even so, the plan has been a factor in a wave of retirements of coal-fired plants, which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power and state mandates promoting energy conservation. Repealing the Clean Power Plan without a timeline or a commitment to propose a rule to reduce carbon pollution "isn't a step forward, it's a wholesale retreat from EPA's legal, scientific and moral obligation to address the threats of climate change,'" said former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. While the Supreme Court has concluded that EPA is obligated to regulate greenhouse gases, "this administration has no intention of following the law," said McCarthy, who led the EPA when the Clean Power Plan was completed. "They are denying it just as they are denying the science. They're using stall tactics to defer action, ignoring the courts and the demands of the American people." Industry groups cheered the planned repeal, saying it would reverse regulatory overreach by Obama and McCarthy." The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers," said Hal Quinn, president and CEO of the National Mining Association. The Obama-era plan would have sharply reduced the number of coal-fired plants, making the grid more vulnerable to reliability concerns and increasing costs with "trivial environmental benefits," Quinn said. The new plan will save an estimated 240 million tons of annual coal production and safeguard more than 27,000 mining jobs and almost 100,000 additional jobs throughout the supply chain, he said. In the leaked document, the Trump administration argues that repealing the Clean Power Plan could spare an estimated $33 billion in compliance costs in 2030, arguing that the Obama administration overstated the rule's potential health benefits. Previously, the EPA had estimated that by 2030 the Clean Power Plan would prevent 90,000 asthma attacks and up to 3,600 premature deaths a year. The leaked document casts doubts on those numbers and says the EPA plans to perform updated modeling and analysis of health benefits and other impacts of the rule. Liz Perera, climate policy director for the Sierra Club, said repealing the Clean Power Plan "is about one thing and one thing only: helping corporate polluters profit."	False
504	npr	left_center_bias	2018-12-06	In fact, it's not at all clear if the change would help the ailing coal industry.	But coal industry officials believe this rule change will still help."	Environmental groups argue that in order to reduce climate change risks, the world will have to stop burning coal.	This would ease an Obama-era rule that was a central target in critics' accusations of a "war on coal."	Previous actions include relaxing Obama-era regulations on carbon emissions and mercury emissions as well as rolling back existing regulations that govern coal ash.	The Environmental Protection Agency proposal would revise its "New Source Performance Standards" for coal power plants, allowing coal-fired generators to emit more CO2 per megawatt-hour of electricity generated. <sep> 	Trump's EPA Plans To Ease Carbon Emissions Rule For New Coal Plants Trump's EPA Plans To Ease Carbon Emissions Rule For New Coal PlantsThe Trump administration plans to eliminate an Obama-era requirement that new coal-fired power plants have expensive technology to capture carbon dioxide emissions. This latest administration effort to boost fossil fuel industries comes as leaders from nearly 200 countries are meeting in Poland to discuss how to keep greenhouse gasses out of the atmosphere. And amid reports that CO2 emissions are rising again, as well as the administration's own report that climate change is causing more severe weather more frequently and could eventually hurt the U.S. economy. The Environmental Protection Agency proposal would revise its "New Source Performance Standards" for coal power plants, allowing coal-fired generators to emit more CO2 per megawatt-hour of electricity generated. This would ease an Obama-era rule that was a central target in critics' accusations of a "war on coal." The coal industry argues the existing Obama administration requirements made it all but impossible to build new coal power plants, by requiring costly technologies such as carbon capture and storage. EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler, a former coal industry lobbyist, echoed that argument in announcing the proposed rule change." By replacing onerous regulations with high, yet achievable, standards, we can continue America's historic energy production, keep energy prices affordable, and encourage new investments in cutting-edge technology that can then be exported around the world," said Wheeler. Environmental groups argue that in order to reduce climate change risks, the world will have to stop burning coal. They blasted the EPA's announcement." This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations," said David Doniger, senior strategic director of the Climate & Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council." Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science, public safety, and reality," said Mary Anne Hitt, senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign. In fact, it's not at all clear if the change would help the ailing coal industry. In recent years it has stopped building new plants and been shutting down old ones instead. The federal Energy Information Administration reports U.S. coal consumption has declined over the last decade and this year is expected to be at its lowest level in 39 years. Even as coal use rises in China and India, coal has struggled in the U.S. to compete with cheaper electricity produced from natural gas and renewable energy. But coal industry officials believe this rule change will still help." It does appear that this proposal would make it feasible for new coal plants to be a viable option in the future in the United States," says Michelle Bloodworth, president and CEO of the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity. This is the latest in a series of efforts the Trump administration has taken to help the coal business. Previous actions include relaxing Obama-era regulations on carbon emissions and mercury emissions as well as rolling back existing regulations that govern coal ash. The EPA will collect public comments on the proposal for 60 days and plans to hold a public hearing on the proposed rule change.	True
689	CNN	left_bias	2017-04-22	We can come up with better ways to provide power to people and still keep jobs.	This idea that environmental protection and economic growth are contrary are just wrong, and we've proven that over the years as we have reduced the pollutants in the air, increased the population, increased our energy demand and watched our GDP more than double."	"That's going to really make it impossible for the agency to continue its mission, which is to protect public health and the environment."	And now, of course, it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation.	America must look forward to and innovate for 21st century solutions.	The market conditions are what's causing the coal industry to decline, and there's not much the President can do to reverse that trend." <sep> We can't have a thriving economy if you don't have a healthy, clean environment." <sep> We must focus on those," he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on "The Situation Room" in February, rattling off other needs, such as improving air quality. <sep> But advocates of greater federal regulations to address climate change are already expressing dismay about the administration's stance. <sep> We have many priorities at the agency. <sep> Adam Koniuszewski, project leader of the Gorbachev Climate Change Task Force, a think tank that focuses on global challenges posed by climate change, agreed with Whitman. <sep> It's technology or mechanization that's cost most of the jobs this past century in the coal industry. <sep> The meeting was postponed indefinitely, and with key Trump advisers divided over the issue, it is still uncertain what Trump will finally do about the accord. <sep> "What we need to do is make sure the transition to clean energy, which is inevitable, is a just and fair transition, one that helps coal-dependent communities and workers make transitions into other kinds of jobs," Becker said. <sep> 	Climate scientists, officials dismayed over Trump's stance This week, President Donald Trump was to meet with senior administration officials to discuss the deal -- and whether the United States should withdraw from it. The meeting was postponed indefinitely, and with key Trump advisers divided over the issue, it is still uncertain what Trump will finally do about the accord. But advocates of greater federal regulations to address climate change are already expressing dismay about the administration's stance. It's no secret that Trump has called climate change a "hoax" in the past. Last month, he signed an executive order rolling back Obama-era climate regulations, which will initiate a review of the Clean Power Plan, an effort to cut carbon dioxide emissions that Obama started. And Trump's pick to run the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, has made it clear addressing climate change will not be an urgent priority for the agency under his watch, declining to say after his confirmation whether he would forbid EPA scientists from studying the human connection to the issue." We have many priorities at the agency. We must focus on those," he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on "The Situation Room" in February, rattling off other needs, such as improving air quality. He declined to answer repeated questions as to whether he would "allow" climate-change research. "It's a shame for us to lose our leadership position," said Christine Todd Whitman, the EPA administrator during the George W. Bush administration. "We are an extraordinarily innovative, capable nation. We can come up with better ways to provide power to people and still keep jobs. This idea that environmental protection and economic growth are contrary are just wrong, and we've proven that over the years as we have reduced the pollutants in the air, increased the population, increased our energy demand and watched our GDP more than double." "We've seen we can do this," Whitman continued. "We've done it in the past; we can do it again. We can't have a thriving economy if you don't have a healthy, clean environment." Adam Koniuszewski, project leader of the Gorbachev Climate Change Task Force, a think tank that focuses on global challenges posed by climate change, agreed with Whitman. "President Trump has an America First policy," he said. "But in terms of climate leadership, it is exactly the opposite. Promoting a coal- or fossil-fuel-based economy will, in reality, leave America last in terms of a low-carbon economy in the 21st century. China is already taking the lead when it comes to renewable energy -- both solar and wind power. America must look forward to and innovate for 21st century solutions. An emphasis on coal and the energy sources that propelled the industrial revolution is like returning to the Stone Age." Trump's executive order also lifts the moratorium on coal mining on federal lands, something that William Becker, executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project called a "cruel political stunt" designed to rally the support of coal miners, but which won't bring back many jobs. "What we need to do is make sure the transition to clean energy, which is inevitable, is a just and fair transition, one that helps coal-dependent communities and workers make transitions into other kinds of jobs," Becker said. "There's plenty to do out there, including environmental restoration positions," he said. "Coal jobs are not going to come back. There may be a little surge in them, but not much. It's technology or mechanization that's cost most of the jobs this past century in the coal industry. And now, of course, it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation. The market conditions are what's causing the coal industry to decline, and there's not much the President can do to reverse that trend." Trump has proposed massive cuts at the EPA, which Whitman believes is going to imperil its mission going forward. "The EPA can't survive with 31% cuts to the budget," she said. "That's going to really make it impossible for the agency to continue its mission, which is to protect public health and the environment."	False
583	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-08-02	""What do you think the erosion is due to, mayor?"	And the forecast for the future is another two feet of sea — if there was another two feet of sea level rise, what would that mean for Tangier Island?	o you're losing the island even though the waves haven't increased," Gore said."	""Our island is disappearing," he explained, "but it's because of erosion and not because of sea level rising, unless we get a seawall, we will lose our island."	I'm not a scientist but I'm a keen observer, and if sea level rises are occurring," he asked, "why am I not seeing signs of it?	It wasn't clear if he addressed the seawall construction to save the island. <sep> es," Eskridge replied, "his erosion has been going on since Captain John Smith discovered the island." <sep> But, back to the question," he said, "why am I not seeing signs of the sea level rising? <sep> 	Mayor of disappearing island faces Al Gore and shuts down global warming claim James "Ooker" Eskridge is the mayor of a town on an island disappearing in the Chesapeake Bay, but rather than see it as evidence of global warming, he used it to shut down Al Gore's narrative that the seas are rising because of climate change. Eskridge faced the climate warming alarmist during a CNN town hall on global warming." 'm a commercial crabber," Eskridge said, "and I've been working the Chesapeake Bay for 50-plus years. And I have a crab house business out on the water. And water level is the same as it was when the place was built in 1970." I'm not a scientist but I'm a keen observer, and if sea level rises are occurring," he asked, "why am I not seeing signs of it?""Our island is disappearing," he explained, "but it's because of erosion and not because of sea level rising, unless we get a seawall, we will lose our island." But, back to the question," he said, "why am I not seeing signs of the sea level rising?""What do you think the erosion is due to, mayor?" Gore asked." o you're losing the island even though the waves haven't increased," Gore said." es," Eskridge replied, "his erosion has been going on since Captain John Smith discovered the island." Well, arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be any comfort to you and I'm sorry for what you're going through," Gore said." t won't necessarily do you any good for me to tell you that the scientists do say that the sea level is rising in the Chesapeake Bay," he continued, "and that you've lost about two-thirds of your island already, over a longer period of time. And the forecast for the future is another two feet of sea — if there was another two feet of sea level rise, what would that mean for Tangier Island?""Tangier Island, our elevation is only about 4 feet above level," Eskridge said, "and if I see sea level rise occurring, I'll shout it from the housetops, we don't have, you know, the land to give up." But I'm just not seeing it," he said. Eskridge's plight to save his island reached mainstream media attention when President Donald Trump called him after seeing a CNN report about the disappearing island's Trump-supporting mayor. Trump reportedly told him to not worry about his island and that it would be there for many hundreds of years more. It wasn't clear if he addressed the seawall construction to save the island. Gore is currently making the rounds to publicize the sequel to his global climate documentary, "An Inconvenient Truth." Recently, he said that the global warming fight was in the same vein as great "moral causes" of humanity in the past, like the Civil Rights cause of the '60s, and abolition.	True
354	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-10-01	It's a good adaptation to the climate change taking place at the time.	We contest the common narrative that past human-environment interactions must always be one of over-exploitation and degradation."	Dr. Chris Brierley (UCL Geography), lead author, said: "The possibility that humans could have had a stabilising influence on the environment has significant implications.	The model found that the 'Green Sahara' should have collapsed earlier than it did.	The spread of domestic animals across the Sahara occurred at a time of increasing climatic instability, and yet, these pastoralist populations thrived."	This suggests that pastoralists lasted longer than expected and the techniques they used helped them to adapt to the environmental changes. <sep> Humans delayed onset of Sahara desert by 500 years? <sep> There is now work today looking at what we can learn from nomadic pastoralists, such as selective grazing strategies, which can be applied to sustainable adaption to desertification that we expect from future climate change." <sep> Our study shows that increasing human population and sustainable pastoralism did not accelerate—and may even have delayed—the decline of the 'Green Sahara'." <sep> 	Humans delayed onset of Sahara desert by 500 years? The study by a team of geographers and archaeologists from UCL and King's College London, published in Nature Communications, suggests that early pastoralists in North Africa combined detailed knowledge of the environment with newly domesticated species to deal with the long-term drying trend. It is thought that early pastoralists in North Africa developed intricate ways to efficiently manage sparse vegetation and relatively dry and low fertility soils. Dr. Chris Brierley (UCL Geography), lead author, said: "The possibility that humans could have had a stabilising influence on the environment has significant implications. We contest the common narrative that past human-environment interactions must always be one of over-exploitation and degradation." The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape, does not support the scenario of over-exploitation. Our study shows that increasing human population and sustainable pastoralism did not accelerate—and may even have delayed—the decline of the 'Green Sahara'." Around 8,000 years ago, the Sahara wasn't desert, but instead was a vibrant ecosystem that supported hunter-gatherers and fisherfolk. The 'Green Sahara' - the colloquial term for the African Humid Period – was the period in which North Africa became much wetter than it is today thanks to a series of monsoons. As the Earth's orbit slowly changed, the rain started to reduce, and the vegetation started to die back. Around 5,500 years ago, the ecosystem in the Sahara went into a terminal decline towards the desert we have today. Pastoralism (nomadic or semi-nomadic cattle-herders) blossomed in the Sahara from around 1000 years before that collapse. Previous studies have put the blame for the collapse of the 'Green Sahara' onto these nomads who have often been marginalised in history, but this latest studies dispels that myth. The study uses a novel climate-vegetation model to determine whether the end of the African Humid Period occurred earlier than expected. The model keeps track of variables such as vegetation and rainfall, and other processes such as the amount of energy coming from the sun, and the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. The model found that the 'Green Sahara' should have collapsed earlier than it did. This suggests that pastoralists lasted longer than expected and the techniques they used helped them to adapt to the environmental changes. Dr. Brierley added: "Those places where pastoralists last longer are where there are more resources. It's a good adaptation to the climate change taking place at the time. There is now work today looking at what we can learn from nomadic pastoralists, such as selective grazing strategies, which can be applied to sustainable adaption to desertification that we expect from future climate change." Dr. Katie Manning (King's College London), concluded: "Despite the largely inhospitable conditions of the Sahara today, it is not hard to find evidence of human occupation from the last 11,000 years. Thousands of rock art sites illustrate a lush environment, large-game hunting and livestock herding. The spread of domestic animals across the Sahara occurred at a time of increasing climatic instability, and yet, these pastoralist populations thrived." It is likely that strategies used by contemporary traditional herders, such as seasonal movement and selective grazing, were also used by these early pastoralists, helping to maintain an otherwise deteriorating ecosystem." Explore further: Did humans create the Sahara Desert?	False
21	redstate	right_bias	2019-02-05	Still, Ocasio-Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action it'll solve every problem under the sun, including racism and bigotry.	A scenario where we're all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	All we have to do is give up our common sense.	When pie-in-the-sky thinking meets end-of-times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	The cost of this ten-year plan?		Here's the Outrageous Cost of Ocasio-Cortez's "Green New Deal" Freshman Democrat Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has some lofty goals for herself and for America, with the benefits definitely more geared to benefit her. Meanwhile, her plans for us are incredibly costly, and not just because she's pushing a failed economic system for us to operate under. Ocasio-Cortez's "Green New Deal," as Fox News highlighted on Tuesday, is unprecedentedly expensive. The plan involves completely removing any and all uses of fossil fuels within America and moving to 100 percent renewable energy. The New York Democrat says the plan will take ten years. The cost of this ten-year plan? $7 trillion. As I've highlighted previously, the plan is beyond bad. Not only would it indebt us to Russia and China who hold the vast majority of the rare-earth materials needed to build the tidal wave of renewable energy devices we'd need to keep up with the nation's energy needs, but the wind farms, tidal generators, and solar farms have proven to be more deadly to the environment than oil spills. Hundreds of thousands of birds, many of them protected species, die at the hands of wind turbines yearly. Tidal generators beach whales with such frequency that if it were a Republican-backed project, environmental groups would be having conniption fits and endless marches. Still, Ocasio-Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action it'll solve every problem under the sun, including racism and bigotry. What's more, the young democratic socialist proclaims that if we don't do it then we're all going to die in 12 years. When pie-in-the-sky thinking meets end-of-times conspiracy theories we get something like this. A scenario where we're all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed. All we have to do is give up our common sense.	False
607	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-06	The coalition of states argued in a statement the delay "would waste the substantial resources already expended in this litigation," according to a statement from the group.	The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request from the Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama-era policy known as the Clean Power Plan.	The New York-led group of states argue Trump's Environmental Protections Agency has a legal obligation to regulate emissions some climate scientists believe contribute to global warming."	Master's primary responsibility, according to Schneiderman's office, will be investigating and possibly prosecuting the Trump administration for possible civil rights abuses.	States File Legal Challenge Asserting Trump's EPA MUST Fight Global Warming A coalition of states filed a legal challenge Wednesday against the Trump administration's decision to roll back a slew of Obama-era climate regulations.		States File Legal Challenge Asserting Trump's EPA MUST Fight Global Warming A coalition of states filed a legal challenge Wednesday against the Trump administration's decision to roll back a slew of Obama-era climate regulations. The legal motion comes after Trump signed an executive order targeting climate change regulations ushered in by former President Barack Obama. The New York-led group of states argue Trump's Environmental Protections Agency has a legal obligation to regulate emissions some climate scientists believe contribute to global warming." he law is clear: the EPA must limit carbon pollution from power plants," New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who is leading the legal challenge, said in a statement. Other states behind the challenge include California, Delaware, Maryland and Massachusetts. The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request from the Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama-era policy known as the Clean Power Plan. Trump's executive order was largely aimed at halting the Clean Power Plan, which required states to slash carbon dioxide emissions from coal power plants. The plan was never implemented, however, because it was challenged in court by 26 Republican-led states. The Trump administration says this and other Obama-era rules hinder the American economy and create a stultifying business environment. The coalition of states argued in a statement the delay "would waste the substantial resources already expended in this litigation," according to a statement from the group. Schneiderman hired Howard Master, a prosecutor who served under an Obama-appointed U.S. attorney, to focus on corruption cases involving the Trump administration. Master's primary responsibility, according to Schneiderman's office, will be investigating and possibly prosecuting the Trump administration for possible civil rights abuses. Schneiderman's decision to hire Master may indicate the crusading AG plans to flood Trump and his administration with legal filings, subpoenas, and lawsuits, The Wall Street Journal reported." Master] will be working on a wide range of civil and criminal investigations and enforcement matters, including public corruption, complex civil litigation," Eric Soufer, a spokesman for Schneiderman, told WSJ. Schneiderman has made fighting what he calls "man-made" global warming a crucial part of his duties as New York's top law office. He has engaged in a months-long investigation into whether Exxon Mobil illegally hid internal climate research from the public and shareholders. The Democrat based the bulk of his probes on research from left-leading media outlets, many of which receive funding from wealthy environmental groups. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
508	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-05-26	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement, leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency, especially when it comes to climate-changing carbon emissions.	Certainly, "in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power", said Meredith McGehee, executive director of Issue One, a not-for-profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	It rejects decades of science saying fossil-fuel emissions are altering the climate and says on its website that curbing use of petroleum and coal to fight climate change would "squander one of America's greatest comparative advantages among the world's nations"."	hey recognised us as the pre-eminent organisation opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy," Huelskamp wrote.	Ferguson said Pruitt and his top officials had also met with groups known for their campaigns against climate-changing emissions and pollutants from fossil fuels, including the Moms Clean Air Force, the American Lung Association, and others.		Senior EPA officials collaborated with climate change denial group, emails show Newly released emails show senior Environmental Protection Agency officials working closely with a conservative group that dismisses climate change to rally like-minded people for public hearings on science and global warming, counter negative news coverage and tout Scott Pruitt's stewardship of the agency. John Konkus, EPA's deputy associate administrator for public affairs, repeatedly reached out to senior staffers at the Heartland Institute, according to the emails." f you send a list, we will make sure an invitation is sent," Konkus wrote to the then Heartland president, Joseph Bast, in May 2017, seeking suggestions on scientists and economists the EPA could invite to an annual EPA public hearing on the agency's science standards. Follow-up emails show Konkus and the Heartland Institute mustering scores of potential invitees known for rejecting scientific warnings of human-caused climate change, including from groups such as Plants Need CO2, The Right Climate Stuff and Junk Science. The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement, leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency, especially when it comes to climate-changing carbon emissions. They were obtained by the Environmental Defence Fund and the Southern Environmental Law Centre, which sued to enforce a Freedom of Information request. The EPA maintains close working relationships with a broad range of public and private groups, and Heartland is just one of many the agency engages with "to ensure the public is informed", said the EPA spokesman Lincoln Ferguson." t demonstrates the agency's dedication to advancing President Trump's agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty," he said. The public hearing referred to in the May 2017 email was cancelled when the EPA official who runs it fell ill, the EPA said. But Bast contended in an email sent to EPA staffers and others that the official called off the hearing after learning that climate change "sceptics planned to attend". The Heartland Institute calls itself a leading free market thinktank. It rejects decades of science saying fossil-fuel emissions are altering the climate and says on its website that curbing use of petroleum and coal to fight climate change would "squander one of America's greatest comparative advantages among the world's nations"." f course The Heartland Institute has been working with EPA on policy and personnel decisions," Tim Huelskamp, a former Kansas Republican congressman who now leads the group, said in a statement." hey recognised us as the pre-eminent organisation opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy," Huelskamp wrote. He said Heartland would continue to help Pruitt and his staff. Ferguson said Pruitt and his top officials had also met with groups known for their campaigns against climate-changing emissions and pollutants from fossil fuels, including the Moms Clean Air Force, the American Lung Association, and others. But Ben Levitan of the Environmental Defence Fund said mainstream climate-change groups have received nothing like the outreach and invitations that Heartland and other hard-right groups have been getting. Certainly, "in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power", said Meredith McGehee, executive director of Issue One, a not-for-profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform. An email last February shows Bast forwarded to followers an email with the line "From the White House", rallying activists to public hearings the EPA was then holding around the country on repealing an Obama-era power plan meant to curb fossil-fuel emissions. The email is signed by a Pruitt political appointee and gives the name of another EPA official for activists to call. It's not clear from the email, however, who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing. The Washington Post reported in September that Konkus had been scrutinising grant applications for mentions of climate change, which he reportedly calls "the double C-word". Emails show he and former EPA spokeswoman, Liz Bowman, repeatedly reached out to Heartland to talk over critical coverage by the Post. Lakely, the Heartland spokesman, responded that he had shared the article with colleagues, "asking them to jump to your aide [sic] and defend this position". And an email from Bast, shared with EPA staffers and others, shows the then-Heartland president celebrating news that a reporter, Justin Gillis, was leaving the New York Times." ing Dong, the Witch is Dead. Still waiting for Chris Mooney and Juliet Eilperin at the WaPo and Seth Borenstein at AP to flame out," Bast writes.	False
532	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2018-08-17	When asked by CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang whether he accepted that climate change was part of the problem, Zinke said "of course."	However, Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week, blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry."	This has to do with active forest management," Zinke said.	He also acknowledged that "temperatures are rising."	This has nothing to do with climate change.		After denying link, interior secretary says climate change impacts wildfires Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke suggested that climate change may have a role in the recent wildfires that have ravaged California. When asked by CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang whether he accepted that climate change was part of the problem, Zinke said "of course." He also acknowledged that "temperatures are rising." However, Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week, blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry." The only endangered species happens to be a logger," Zinke said. Earlier this week, Zinke blamed "environmental terrorist groups" for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio." We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access -- that have refused to allow [the] harvest of timber," Zinke told Breitbart Monday. On Sunday, Zinke said that the wildfires had "nothing to do with climate change" in an interview with local news station KCRA-TV. He suggested that environmental groups had prevented timber salvage operations, meaning that forests could not be cleared of flammable detritus."I've heard the climate change argument back and forth. This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management," Zinke said. President Trump tweeted earlier in August that California wildfires were made "so much worse" by "bad environmental laws," and called for clearing trees to prevent fires. The Mendocino Complex Fire north of San Francisco is the largest wildfire in state history and has scorched over 400 square miles. More than 14,000 firefighters are responding to over a dozen major blazes throughout California.	False
179	pbs	left_center_bias	2019-02-28	VIDEO  _At his confirmation hearing in January, Wheeler told lawmakers that climatechange is "a huge issue" but not the "greatest crisis."	However, the policies hehas supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of ourenvironment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate changeto our nation."	Wheeler was not making "meaningful progress" on clean water standards, Manchinsaid, citing the agency's failure to limit the amount of highly toxicchemicals contaminating drinking water in West Virginia and around thecountry.	Collins said she was particularly concerned that EPA has proposed to roll backrules regulating mercury emissions from power plants and moved to replace theClean Power Plan, former President Barack Obama's signature proposal to combatclimate change."	here is no doubt that the greenhouse gas emissions driving climate changepose a significant threat" to Maine and the nation, Collins said, adding thatpollution from coal-fired power plants threatens Maine's natural resources,"from our working forests, fishing and agricultural industries, to tourism andrecreation."	believe immediate action must be taken, and these efforts lack a sense ofurgency," Manchin said. <sep> But Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M., said Wheeler was failing to protect theenvironment and human health and was "nominated to unravel and undo theenvironmental protections that are now in place." <sep> 	Senate confirms acting EPA chief Andrew Wheeler for permanent role WASHINGTON — The Senate on Thursday confirmed former coal industry lobbyistAndrew Wheeler to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, despite concernsby Democrats and one Republican about regulatory rollbacks he's made in eightmonths as the agency's acting chief. Senators voted 52-47 to confirm Wheeler, who was nominated by President DonaldTrump after former administrator Scott Pruitt resigned last year amid a seriesof ethics allegations. Sen. John Barrasso, R-Wyo., chairman of the Senate environment committee,called Wheeler "uniquely qualified" to lead EPA and said that under Wheelerthe agency is putting forward proposals that "both protect our environment andallow the country's economy to flourish." But Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M., said Wheeler was failing to protect theenvironment and human health and was "nominated to unravel and undo theenvironmental protections that are now in place." Wheeler, 54, was confirmed as deputy administrator last April and becameacting chief in July after Pruitt resigned. He worked at the EPA early in hiscareer and was a top aide at the Senate Environment Committee before becominga lobbyist a decade ago. Maine Sen. Susan Collins was the sole Republican to oppose Wheeler. She saidin a statement that, unlike Pruitt, Wheeler "understands the mission of theEPA and acts in accordance with ethical standards. However, the policies hehas supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of ourenvironment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate changeto our nation." Collins said she was particularly concerned that EPA has proposed to roll backrules regulating mercury emissions from power plants and moved to replace theClean Power Plan, former President Barack Obama's signature proposal to combatclimate change." here is no doubt that the greenhouse gas emissions driving climate changepose a significant threat" to Maine and the nation, Collins said, adding thatpollution from coal-fired power plants threatens Maine's natural resources,"from our working forests, fishing and agricultural industries, to tourism andrecreation." VIDEO  _At his confirmation hearing in January, Wheeler told lawmakers that climatechange is "a huge issue" but not the "greatest crisis." Video by PBS NewsHour_Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia, who supported Wheeler'snomination as deputy last year, voted against his promotion. Wheeler was not making "meaningful progress" on clean water standards, Manchinsaid, citing the agency's failure to limit the amount of highly toxicchemicals contaminating drinking water in West Virginia and around thecountry. The EPA has announced plans to place legal limits on the chemicals but has notyet done so. The perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, knowncollectively as PFAS, have been linked to health threats ranging from cancerto decreased fertility."  believe immediate action must be taken, and these efforts lack a sense ofurgency," Manchin said. Like Collins, Manchin also said he was concerned at EPA's attempt to undorules designed to limit emissions of mercury, which can damage the brains ofinfants and young children. Environmental groups, meanwhile, slammed Wheeler, saying that while hisbehavior is "less cartoonish" than Pruitt, he supports the same policies." heeler wants to turn the EPA into a wish-granting service for polluters, nomatter the cost to public health or wildlife. But it's only a matter of timebefore his dirty dealings land him in the same trash heap as his predecessor,"said Emily Knobbe, EPA policy specialist at the Center for BiologicalDiversity, an Arizona-based environmental group. America's Power, a trade group that represents coal producers, applaudedWheeler's confirmation." uring his time as acting administrator, Andrew Wheeler has been seen as athoughtful leader who understands the need for sensible environmentalpolicies," said Michelle Bloodworth, the group's president and CEO. Wheeler's"long experience in public service demonstrates his integrity in serving EPA'smission," she said.)	False
713	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-08-07	Let's be clear about what is at issue here.	Consequently, Pruitt's rollbacks, suspensions or delays, if allowed to persist and expand, will lead loss and deprivation of American lives, including children – the future of our country – thereby increasing healthcare costs, family anguish and other disruptions of "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."	Rules on methane leaks from drilling oil and gas wells should be obstructed through delays or revision.	Pruitt is extinguishing life-saving and disease-preventing health standards that were vetted in open procedures, that were open to input by the commercial interested affected – which usually leads to diluting the final regulation – and which have solid scientific basis to protect vulnerable populations.	The industries that are most responsible for pollution should be in charge of their own enforcement.	He is also hostile to the "precautionary principle" which shifts the burden of proof to the progenitors of new chemical or particulate or gas into the environment. <sep> Attempts to curb pollution in our air and waterways should be revoked. <sep> Pesticides like chlorpyrifos, found to be dangerous after years of study, should be pushed back for 'reconsideration' – in short to be shelved. <sep> Conservative lungs and other bodily organs are as vulnerable to pollution-bred terminal ailments and the violent effects of climate change, as their liberal counterparts. <sep> 	Preparing For The Impeachment Of Scott Pruitt: An Open Letter To Members Of Congress In his five months as EPA Administrator, former Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt is an aggregating impeachable offense, ever giving fuller meaning to Alexander Hamilton's Federalist 65 elaboration of what constitutes "high crimes and misdemeanors," to wit: Impeachable offenses arise from the "abuse or violation of some public trust" and "relate chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society itself." Riding into office on the back of 14 lawsuits he filed against the EPA, Pruitt took his oath of office to uphold the laws of the land and promptly proceeded to do just the opposite. Using the mantra of "states' rights" as his corporate fig leaf and wildly accusing EPA scientists of being unscientific, he has moved to "undo, delay or otherwise block more than 30 environmental rules," according to the July 1, 2017 New York Times. His tenure thus far at the EPA is the stuff of corporate wish lists: meeting privately with the worst industrial perpetrators of silent violence (charitably described as "pollution") and huddling with industry lobbyists and corporate lawyers who are eager for Pruitt to dismantle his own agency ― the federal manager of environmental violence to air, water, soil and food. Mr. Pruitt makes himself vulnerable, with all the ex parte contacts and corporate advisors to many serious offenses, including: a) violation of the procedures of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, b) conflict of interest rules, c) violation of both criminal and civil laws by the overreaching industry lobbyists who constitute Pruitt's tight cadre of clenched-jawed political appointees. History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self-inflicted wounds and scandals. Republicans in the House of Representatives are quite familiar with trying to impeach a civil officer. For many months prior to the November election, they were hounding, with baseless impeachment threats, John Koskinen, then-director of the IRS and one of the most honorable civil servants in a generation. So fervid and ill-tempered was their partisan zeal that they also took it out on the IRS's budget, already lower than it was several years earlier, and cut it further to the bone. This fulminating vendetta, widely reported, has led to millions of taxpayers waiting on the phone with the IRS to get served or not be served at all. Most ironically, the Republicans assured that the woefully understaffed IRS could collect even less of the estimated $350 billion in annual unpaid taxes, thereby expanding the federal deficit they so often decry for political expediency. Pruitt, like most captured corporatists, has ignored the objections to his policies from the 15,000 employees of the EPA, hoping that many will leave the agency and further weaken the environmental health and safety efforts that he abhors. He doesn't want them around because he cannot rebut their scientific arguments for retaining existing standards, which would protect our environment from deadly toxins. He is also hostile to the "precautionary principle" which shifts the burden of proof to the progenitors of new chemical or particulate or gas into the environment. When you go through the list of health standards slated for Pruitt's abolition, you wonder whether there are any limits to his cold-blooded, corporatized agenda. So extreme is his corporate ardor that there will undoubtedly be lawless actions coming from his precipitous acts – which he rightly believes will not be subject to restraint from the Trump White House or the Republican-controlled Congress. Pruitt's fevered mind thinks like this: Climate change is a hoax. Methane gas, which is 40 times more harmful to global warming than carbon dioxide, should not be subject to the modest Obama-era required disclosures. The industries that are most responsible for pollution should be in charge of their own enforcement. The EPA's already grossly inadequate budget should be cut further. Attempts to curb pollution in our air and waterways should be revoked. Pesticides like chlorpyrifos, found to be dangerous after years of study, should be pushed back for 'reconsideration' – in short to be shelved. Rules on methane leaks from drilling oil and gas wells should be obstructed through delays or revision. Pruitt had a private meeting with corporate lobbyists at Trump International Hotel, which is a venue for recurring violations of the Emoluments Clause due to its Trump-enriching expenditures by foreign interests. That's when you know that the officious Pruitt doesn't even care about appearances, much less the perils of lawless and secretive influence-peddling that enriches President Trump's investments. Members of Congress – Democratic and Republican – must ensure accountability for this rogue administrator. Take close note of his non-compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act and keep in mind that political ideologies will not protect your children or vulnerable relatives and friends form environmental toxins. Conservative lungs and other bodily organs are as vulnerable to pollution-bred terminal ailments and the violent effects of climate change, as their liberal counterparts. Let's be clear about what is at issue here. Pruitt is extinguishing life-saving and disease-preventing health standards that were vetted in open procedures, that were open to input by the commercial interested affected – which usually leads to diluting the final regulation – and which have solid scientific basis to protect vulnerable populations. Consequently, Pruitt's rollbacks, suspensions or delays, if allowed to persist and expand, will lead loss and deprivation of American lives, including children – the future of our country – thereby increasing healthcare costs, family anguish and other disruptions of "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." Pruitt and his cohorts are a clear and present danger to America. He will demonstrate in the coming weeks and months how deserving he is of impeachment in the House of Representatives and conviction in the U.S. Senate. That is, if he doesn't resign or be forced to resign due to his own cruelty, recklessness and running afoul of the law.	True
367	nationalreview	right_bias	2018-03-28	So what's the problem?	As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes, while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies' alleged accountability for rising sea levels, they fall into two essential categories.	Local lawsuits also struggle to address the global scope of the climate-change problem.	The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits.	This is the usual category for environmental-harm suits, the same legal theory by which localities have sued over lead pollution, water pollution, and the like.	Presumably, this will soon be a cause célèbre. <sep> This approach gives juries multiple routes to a ruling against the energy companies, but it could backfire, with so many claims being made against such a wide variety of defendants that none of the blows really land. <sep> But it is unlikely to succeed, and lawsuits are a poor way to address the environmental harms of energy production anyhow. <sep> The other plaintiffs — namely, San Mateo County, Marin County, and Imperial Beach — are employing a much more scattershot strategy, not only in the number of defendants that they name (nearly 40), but in alleging "design defect, failure to warn, negligence, and trespass" in addition to public nuisance. <sep> Second, a key allegation against cigarette companies was that they hid and denied the harms of smoking, but the parallel allegations against the energy companies are contradictory. <sep> San Francisco and Oakland allege "public nuisance," and are suing to win compensation for that nuisance. <sep> According to a study that is often drawn upon to make the case for liability, the two largest contributors to the rise in CO2 emissions since 1980 are Saudi Aramco and Gazprom: the state-owned oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Russia. <sep> This approach is likely to cause backlash that derails real, sustainable reforms to protect the environment. <sep> In North Carolina v. Tennessee Valley Authority, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit dismissed a common-law nuisance action on the grounds that "there is a distinction between an activity that is merely not illegal versus one that is explicitly granted a permit to operate in a particular fashion." <sep> As the eminent legal scholar Richard Epstein puts it, "If you're going to need a system of regulation, you can do that in a thousand different ways, but erratic, independent lawsuits in separate courts by separate people is the wrong way to go." <sep> According to Bookbinder the claim "simply requires demonstrating that the defendant contributed to a condition that constitutes an unreasonable interference with public rights." <sep> The Union of Concerned Scientists, the activist group that has spearheaded this push for legal action, has compared energy companies' behavior with that of tobacco companies decades ago. <sep> Energy Companies Sued for Being Energy Companies Lawsuits are a poor way to make the tradeoff between abundant energy and environmental harm. <sep> There is an inherent tradeoff between affordable energy and environmental harm, and it makes no sense to ask judges and juries rather than elected legislators to strike the right balance. <sep> 	Energy Companies Sued for Being Energy Companies Lawsuits are a poor way to make the tradeoff between abundant energy and environmental harm. Numerous jurisdictions are suing energy companies. Not for fraud or white-collar crime, but for the effects of climate change. Bill de Blasio, mayor of New York, recently added his city to the list — and also started to divest the city's pension funds from fossil-fuel companies. But the phenomenon is primarily a California-centric one. In an address at SXSW earlier this month, even Arnold Schwarzenegger joined the fray. Presumably, this will soon be a cause célèbre. But it is unlikely to succeed, and lawsuits are a poor way to address the environmental harms of energy production anyhow. As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes, while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies' alleged accountability for rising sea levels, they fall into two essential categories. San Francisco and Oakland allege "public nuisance," and are suing to win compensation for that nuisance. This is the usual category for environmental-harm suits, the same legal theory by which localities have sued over lead pollution, water pollution, and the like. It was also the basis for the successful legal action taken against lead-paint producers in the same area. According to Bookbinder the claim "simply requires demonstrating that the defendant contributed to a condition that constitutes an unreasonable interference with public rights." The other plaintiffs — namely, San Mateo County, Marin County, and Imperial Beach — are employing a much more scattershot strategy, not only in the number of defendants that they name (nearly 40), but in alleging "design defect, failure to warn, negligence, and trespass" in addition to public nuisance. This approach gives juries multiple routes to a ruling against the energy companies, but it could backfire, with so many claims being made against such a wide variety of defendants that none of the blows really land. So what's the problem? The Union of Concerned Scientists, the activist group that has spearheaded this push for legal action, has compared energy companies' behavior with that of tobacco companies decades ago. The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits. First, unlike smoking, energy is a basic good. Some form of energy is necessary to do just about anything, including to meet essential needs such as heating or cooling a home (which in some places is a genuine safety issue). There is an inherent tradeoff between affordable energy and environmental harm, and it makes no sense to ask judges and juries rather than elected legislators to strike the right balance. Second, a key allegation against cigarette companies was that they hid and denied the harms of smoking, but the parallel allegations against the energy companies are contradictory. We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels — and yet publicly available, industry-funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing. For instance, San Mateo County's lawsuit notes that Exxon made its climate findings public in peer-reviewed science journals by 1982. Another obstacle is the fact that energy companies have government-granted permits to do what they do, a fact that some courts have found highly relevant. In North Carolina v. Tennessee Valley Authority, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit dismissed a common-law nuisance action on the grounds that "there is a distinction between an activity that is merely not illegal versus one that is explicitly granted a permit to operate in a particular fashion." The opinion further notes, citing New England Legal Foundation v. Costle, that "courts traditionally have been reluctant to enjoin as a public nuisance activities which have been considered and specifically authorized by the government." Local lawsuits also struggle to address the global scope of the climate-change problem. According to a study that is often drawn upon to make the case for liability, the two largest contributors to the rise in CO2 emissions since 1980 are Saudi Aramco and Gazprom: the state-owned oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Russia. The initial San Mateo suit did name Statoil, a company majority-owned by the Norwegian government, as a defendant, but even this was dropped in an effort to keep the case in state, as opposed to federal, court. As the eminent legal scholar Richard Epstein puts it, "If you're going to need a system of regulation, you can do that in a thousand different ways, but erratic, independent lawsuits in separate courts by separate people is the wrong way to go." This approach is likely to cause backlash that derails real, sustainable reforms to protect the environment.	False
57	nationalreview	right_bias	2019-03-29	Another problem, which compounds the first, is that they get greedy.	Climate change is a real concern, but if we did absolutely nothing to stop it, the planet would still be here in a dozen years.	The reasons this is a political problem for climate-change warriors should be obvious.	The problem is that we've heard these things before.	You can believe that climate change is a real problem and also be forgiven for thinking progressives are trying to pull a fast one.	Melting polar ice is something to worry about, but it's not gone. <sep> In 1989, a U.N. official predicted "entire nations could be wiped off the face of the Earth by rising sea levels if the global warming trend is not reversed by the year 2000." <sep> Working on the premise that a crisis is a terrible thing to waste, progressives have a long record of trying to throw other items on their wish list into the anti-climate-change shopping cart. <sep> There are people who nonetheless believe that climate change is a world-threatening calamity and that exaggeration is a necessary tool to galvanize public opinion. <sep> They might also think they missed a crucial plot point if the protagonists proposed a sweeping government effort to stop the meteor and then, when given the opportunity to vote for it, voted "present" in protest. <sep> Like a high school game of telephone, this quickly became a blanket statement that we have "twelve years to save the planet." <sep> 	Democrats Take a Nonsensical Approach to Climate Change Environmental concerns are real, but the planet still will be here in twelve years. Imagine there's a movie about a meteor heading toward Earth. It will be here in twelve years. Following Hollywood convention, once you got past the part where the maverick scientist or precocious kid discovering it struggles to convince the world about the threat, you'd expect the president or the military to leap into action. Congress is usually left out of such plots, but it's not a stretch to imagine that Congress would race to authorize a plan to send astronauts into space to prevent Armageddon or a planetary deep impact. (If you don't believe me, I refer you to the movies Armageddon and Deep Impact.)The initial rollout of the Green New Deal, a sweeping proposal to overhaul the U.S. economy and, taken seriously, society itself, was supposed to follow a script like this. The United Nations opened the bidding by announcing last year that we had twelve years to keep the pace of climate change from accelerating too fast to contain the damage. Like a high school game of telephone, this quickly became a blanket statement that we have "twelve years to save the planet." Climate change is a real concern, but if we did absolutely nothing to stop it, the planet would still be here in a dozen years. So would the human race and many other living things. In fact, if America did virtually everything the Green New Dealers propose, global emissions of greenhouse gases wouldn't change that much unless China, India, Russia, and all the African nations followed suit. There are people who nonetheless believe that climate change is a world-threatening calamity and that exaggeration is a necessary tool to galvanize public opinion. If you Google the phrase "twelve years to save the planet," you'll find people who think it's literally true. The problem is that we've heard these things before. In 1989, a U.N. official predicted "entire nations could be wiped off the face of the Earth by rising sea levels if the global warming trend is not reversed by the year 2000." In 2008, Al Gore warned that the northern polar ice cap could be gone in five years. Melting polar ice is something to worry about, but it's not gone. The reasons this is a political problem for climate-change warriors should be obvious. First, they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility. By working on the theory that they have to scare the bejeebus out of the public, they made it easy for people to dismiss them when their Chicken Little prophecies didn't materialize. Another problem, which compounds the first, is that they get greedy. Working on the premise that a crisis is a terrible thing to waste, progressives have a long record of trying to throw other items on their wish list into the anti-climate-change shopping cart. The Green New Deal, as presented by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D., N.Y.), includes high-quality health care for everyone, guaranteed jobs, paid vacations, a living wage, and retirement security. Indeed, it's worth remembering that environmentalists targeted the fossil-fuel industry for early retirement long before concerns about global warming were on the agenda. The anti-oil campaign began with the Santa Barbara oil spill in 1969, back when concerns about another ice age were still taken seriously. You can believe that climate change is a real problem and also be forgiven for thinking progressives are trying to pull a fast one. This is especially so when you consider that proponents of the GND also favor phasing out nuclear power, which could provide vastly more electricity than wind or solar (and more efficiently). Which gets me back to where I started. Imagine there was a movie about an incoming meteor that could be stopped only with a nuclear warhead, and the heroes insisted that nuclear weapons are just too icky to use, even to save the planet. Audiences would scratch their heads. They might also think they missed a crucial plot point if the protagonists proposed a sweeping government effort to stop the meteor and then, when given the opportunity to vote for it, voted "present" in protest. That's similar to what happened this week. Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell brought the Green New Deal to the floor for a vote, and Democrats refused to vote for it. Instead, they harangued McConnell for pulling a stunt. They were right. It was a stunt. But sometimes it takes a stunt to expose an even bigger one.	True
331	theblaze	right_bias	2018-11-09	These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA," Morris wrote.	However, Morris argued that the department had not given a "reasoned explanation" for how it came to this conclusion.	Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline, but determined Thursday that the department's analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.	TransCanada is blocked from "engaging in any activity in furtherance of the construction or operation of Keystone and associated facilities" until the State Department can confirm that doing so would not violate the Administrative Procedure Act or the National Environmental Policy Act.	In its initial report, the State Department had said that any climate related impacts from the pipeline "would prove inconsequential."		Federal judge blocks Keystone XL pipeline A federal judge blocked construction on the Keystone XL pipeline on Thursday. In a 54-page decision, Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department, the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline, and the TransCanada Corporation. TransCanada is blocked from "engaging in any activity in furtherance of the construction or operation of Keystone and associated facilities" until the State Department can confirm that doing so would not violate the Administrative Procedure Act or the National Environmental Policy Act. Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline, but determined Thursday that the department's analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial. He also accused the State Department of using  "outdated information" about potential environmental impacts instead of "the best scientific and commercial data available." These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA," Morris wrote. In its initial report, the State Department had said that any climate related impacts from the pipeline "would prove inconsequential." However, Morris argued that the department had not given a "reasoned explanation" for how it came to this conclusion. TransCanada has claimed that the pipeline would result in few oil spills by decreasing the amount of oil being transported by rail, and lower greenhouse gas emissions by lowering the amount of oil being transported by ocean tanker. If constructed, the Keystone XL Pipeline would stretch from Hardisty, Alberta, to Nebraska, where it would connect to an existing pipeline going to the Gulf Coast. In November 2015, former President Barack Obama's administration blocked the pipeline's construction, citing potential environmental impact. Two days after taking office, President Donald Trump signed an executive order reauthorizing the pipeline.	True
576	dailymail	questionable_source	2018-12-03	Climate Change.	He gave a speech at the opening ceremony of the summit and said: ''We are facing a man-made disaster of global scale.	It earmarked the next two years as a key opportunity to help halt climate change.	'Any delay will only make it harder and more expensive to respond to climate change.	They said the planet sits at a 'crossroads' and urged action to cut emissions and reach Paris targets.	It also claims it has soured the atmosphere and damaged goodwill in the international arena. <sep> It read: 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement - including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change - or push action further down the road. <sep> 'There's absolutely no doubt that the Trump effect has created a sense of uncertainty in terms of the political commitment to achieve anything close to a 2°C target. <sep> It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'. <sep> It hopes to hold the increase in the global average temperature to below 2°C (3.6°F) 'and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C (2.7°F)'Sir David Attenborough will be in attendance in the 'people's seat' to represent the people who are affected by global warming. <sep> One expert has published a study and said that the withdrawal of the US from the 2015 Paris Agreement as well as Trump's ill-informed remarks on climate change could have long-lasting and severe ramifications.A United Nations-sponsored climate summit in Poland has kicked off today which brings together experts from around the world as leading figures in the UN claim our planet has reached a 'crossroads'. <sep> It claimed that to achieve this goal, governments around the world would have to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 45 per cent by 2030. <sep> 'The Conference of the Parties (COP) comes shortly after the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) announced the intention to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C. <sep> 	Trump's words and actions threaten to derail climate change efforts Donald Trump is threatening to derail climate change efforts with his persistent denial of global warming, claim scientists. Pulling the US from the Paris Agreement has opened the flood gates as several others, including Russia and Turkey, follow his lead. Trump removed the US, the second greatest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the world, from the Paris Agreement as one of his first major presidential acts. One expert has published a study and said that the withdrawal of the US from the 2015 Paris Agreement as well as Trump's ill-informed remarks on climate change could have long-lasting and severe ramifications.A United Nations-sponsored climate summit in Poland has kicked off today which brings together experts from around the world as leading figures in the UN claim our planet has reached a 'crossroads'. They say the next two years are crucial to our success if we are to successfully halt global warming.A study, from the Institute of International and European Affairs, says Trump's decision has created the 'moral and political cover for others to follow suit' in leaving the agreement. It also claims it has soured the atmosphere and damaged goodwill in the international arena.'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change,' said Joseph Curtin, a senior fellow at the IIEA.'There's absolutely no doubt that the Trump effect has created a sense of uncertainty in terms of the political commitment to achieve anything close to a 2°C target.'The Paris Agreement, which was first signed in 2015, is an international agreement to control and limit climate change. It hopes to hold the increase in the global average temperature to below 2°C (3.6°F) 'and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C (2.7°F)'Sir David Attenborough will be in attendance in the 'people's seat' to represent the people who are affected by global warming. He gave a speech at the opening ceremony of the summit and said: ''We are facing a man-made disaster of global scale.'Our greatest threat in thousands of years. Climate Change.'The Conference of the Parties (COP) comes shortly after the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) announced the intention to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C. This gathering has been pegged as the most influential since the 2015 ratification of the Paris Agreement. It claimed that to achieve this goal, governments around the world would have to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 45 per cent by 2030. Four influential previous presidents of the talks called for decisive action to reach these targets. They said the planet sits at a 'crossroads' and urged action to cut emissions and reach Paris targets. Antonio Guterres, UN Secretary-General, said this period of time is 'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.A statement from the former chiefs came a day before the summit was scheduled to begin and is a highly unusual move. It earmarked the next two years as a key opportunity to help halt climate change. It read: 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement - including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change - or push action further down the road.'Any delay will only make it harder and more expensive to respond to climate change.'The statement was issued by Frank Bainimarama of Fiji, Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco, Laurent Fabius of France and Manuel Pulgar Vidal of Peru. In a report released ahead of the climate summit in Poland, the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) pointed out that the 20 warmest years on record have been in the past 22 years. It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'. The UN agency said in its provisional report that 'the past four years - 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 - are also the four warmest years in the series'.	True
399	cnn	left_bias	2018-12-10	Countries were asked to "welcome" the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which says governments around the world must take "rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society" to avoid disastrous levels of global warming.	But the decline of coal for power plants has been a long-term trend regardless as the energy industry has moved to less expensive sources such as natural gas.	In fact, none are designed to reduce fossil fuel emissions, which the report said is needed to combat extreme climate change, which otherwise will cause "substantial damages to the US economy, environment, and human health and well-being over the coming decades."	The administration may "be trying to lower the bar significantly for future new sources of pollution that the EPA tries to regulate," said Mary Anne Hitt, senior director of the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	The oil industry says any impacts minimal because of improved technology and more limited footprint needed for exploration.		5 things the Trump admin has done that go against its climate change warning Washington (CNN) Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change, it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report. In fact, none are designed to reduce fossil fuel emissions, which the report said is needed to combat extreme climate change, which otherwise will cause "substantial damages to the US economy, environment, and human health and well-being over the coming decades." President Donald Trump, who previously has called climate change a "hoax," has rejected the report's conclusion that climate change could be devastating for the economy, saying "I don't believe it." Here's what the administration has said and done since Thanksgiving:EPA acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said the carbon-capture technology required by the Obama-era made constructing new power plants too expensive. But the decline of coal for power plants has been a long-term trend regardless as the energy industry has moved to less expensive sources such as natural gas. Environmentalists worry the proposed rule suggests the EPA will set new standards that would weaken the requirements that the agency uses to regulate other types of pollution. The administration may "be trying to lower the bar significantly for future new sources of pollution that the EPA tries to regulate," said Mary Anne Hitt, senior director of the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign. Sides with Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait at climate conferenceConsidering Trump announced the US would walk away from the Paris climate agreement -- which brought together the rest of the world -- it's no surprise the US continues to be an outlier on the international stage. Countries were asked to "welcome" the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which says governments around the world must take "rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society" to avoid disastrous levels of global warming. The US and the three other nations sided against "welcoming" the measure." The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it, but not to welcome it, as that would denote endorsement of the report," the State Department said in a statement." As we have made clear in the IPCC and other bodies, the United States has not endorsed the findings of the report," it added. At the recent G20 meeting in Argentina, which came just days after the release of that dire climate report, US diplomats insisted on noting that the US reaffirmed its intention to withdraw from the Paris accord.A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US "reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security, utilizing all energy sources and technologies, while protecting the environment." When the US Geological Survey last week announced a major discovery of oil and natural gas underneath Texas and New Mexico, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke called it a gift." Christmas came a few weeks early this year," he said. "American strength flows from American energy, and as it turns out, we have a lot of American energy." Zinke's position involves the dual and sometimes competing roles of overseeing leases to develop resources -- such as oil, natural gas, and minerals -- and preserving federal lands for wildlife and human recreational uses. The Interior Department proposed to cut protections that benefited the sage grouse, a grassland bird that lives in the Great Plains and western states, which could allow for expanded oil and drilling. The plan would remove protections on nearly 9 million acres of protected habitat. The oil industry says any impacts minimal because of improved technology and more limited footprint needed for exploration.	False
545	yahoonews	left_center_bias	2018-08-07	All of those problems are a result of climate change.	We'd even settle for a coherent policy to tackle it, rather than make it worse," Poole told Yahoo News.	alifornia wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amounts of readily available water to be properly utilized.	She said the firefighters have plenty of water, adding that the fires are a manifestation of the effects of climate change."	It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean.	hese fires are what it means in the West to live with higher temperatures, less snowpack and more frequent and intense droughts. <sep> Must also tree clear to stop fire from spreading!" <sep> 	Cal Fire official on Trump&apos;s wildfire theories: &apos;I don't know what he&apos;s getting at&apos; President Trump's claim that California's environmental policies are preventing firefighters from accessing enough water to stop the state's wildfires has been roundly dismissed by experts and state officials. Windy conditions and high heat expanded the Mendocino Complex Fire to 290,692 acres by Tuesday morning, making it the largest wildfire in the state's history, destroying some 75 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate. Seven other major wildfires are burning in California, from Shasta County to San Bernardino County, at the same time. Trump made the dubious claim that "readily available water" is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean for environmental reasons and blamed California Gov. Jerry Brown in a series of tweets." alifornia wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amounts of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire from spreading!" Trump tweeted on Monday. Yahoo News reached out to Scott McLean, a deputy chief at the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire), to get the agency's take on Trump's claims and what's actually happening in the efforts to stop the Mendocino Complex and other wildfires. He outright rejected the assertion that firefighters do not have enough water to handle the current wildfires." o, that is untrue. There are bodies of water. There are lakes near the Carr Fire: the Shasta Lake, the Whiskeytown Lake that's surrounded by the fire, Trinity Lake — we have plenty of water, Sacramento River is just to the east," McLean said. "On your Mendocino Complex, it's wrapped around Clear Lake. It's got Mendocino Lake, Berryessa Lake, and it has a river close by, so there are absolutely no water issues." We asked why Trump was saying that the state's water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated."  cannot speak to that. I don't know what he's getting at. I have no idea," McLean said. He added that California's water policy has had "no effect to our water supply." On top of calling climate change a hoax, Trump has been critical of the U.S. Forest Service's forest fire prevention campaign with Smokey Bear. Kate Poole, the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Council's (NRDC) water division, said it's hard to know where to begin in responding to Trump's tweets because they're fundamentally wrong on many levels. She said the firefighters have plenty of water, adding that the fires are a manifestation of the effects of climate change." hese fires are what it means in the West to live with higher temperatures, less snowpack and more frequent and intense droughts. All of those problems are a result of climate change. Where's the president's outrage about that? We'd even settle for a coherent policy to tackle it, rather than make it worse," Poole told Yahoo News. She said Trump, in complaining about water "diverted" to the Pacific, seems to not understand that rivers flow downhill toward the ocean. On the contrary, she said, California diverts so much water from its natural path and into artificial canals that many miles of rivers have dried up completely. She said this caused ecological collapse in the San Francisco Bay-Delta estuary, the largest estuary on the west coast of the Americas.	False
738	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-04-27	"This is not a red or a blue issue," he said.	"There is no excuse for failure.	This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle."	But the bill, called the 100 by '50 Act, is unlikely to be considered by a Republican-controlled Congress, where many GOP lawmakers are still unwilling to acknowledge the science behind global warming and contribution of human activity.	But there is no area where he is more wrong than on the issue of climate change."		Bernie Sanders takes aim at Trump on climate ahead of march in DC As protesters prepare for nationwide demonstrations against Donald Trump's environmental agenda, Bernie Sanders on Thursday backed legislation that would phase out the use of fossil fuels in the US by 2050." r President, start listening to the people and the scientists, not the greed of the fossil fuel industry," Sanders said at a rally on Capitol Hill, where he was flanked by environmental advocates and two of his Democratic colleagues, Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon, who authored the bill, and Ed Markey of Massachusetts." s you all know," the Vermont senator and former presidential candidate told the crowd, "Donald Trump is wrong about a lot of things. But there is no area where he is more wrong than on the issue of climate change." Sanders added: "No, Mr President, climate change is not a hoax. Climate change is real." At the event, held just outside the US Capitol, Sanders, Merkley and Markey unveiled legislation which seeks to completely phase out the use of fossil fuels through a transition to 100% clean and renewable energy by the middle of this century. But the bill, called the 100 by '50 Act, is unlikely to be considered by a Republican-controlled Congress, where many GOP lawmakers are still unwilling to acknowledge the science behind global warming and contribution of human activity. The partisan nature of the debate was not lost on the audience, as one attendee interrupted the proceedings to ask: "Where are the Republicans?""We're going to have to recruit those colleagues across the aisle," said Merkley, who ranks among the Senate's most progressive voices. "This is not a red or a blue issue," he said. "There is no excuse for failure. This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle." Demonstrators are set to gather in Washington for the People's Climate March on Saturday, which will also mark the 100th day of the Trump administration. Similar marches are expected in major cities across the US, as part of a broader effort to oppose Trump's efforts to roll back the climate initiatives put in place by Barack Obama. The president has signaled his intentions to tear up the landmark Paris climate agreement, forged by more than 195 nations in late 2015, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28% over a decade. Trump's top aides, who are split on whether or not the US should remain part of the Paris accord, were scheduled to meet on Thursday afternoon to discuss the deal's future. Trump's chief of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, is a vocal proponent of pulling out immediately. Trump has vowed to withdraw from the Paris agreement, and has already taken steps through executive action to begin the process of overturning Obama-era environmental regulations. Among them was a directive to the EPA to dismantle the Clean Power Plan, one of Obama's signature climate policies to reduce carbon pollution from power plants. Trump also signed an executive order that aims to unravel the Obama rule designed to protect American waterways from pollution, and proposed in his budget draconian cuts to the EPA. At the rally, Markey said Trump's actions were precisely why hundreds of thousands of people felt compelled to take to the streets." onald Trump [is] still saying that he's going to issue a new executive order allowing for more oil drilling on the public lands of the United States of America," he said, drawing jeers for the president from the crowd. "That is just completely and totally unacceptable."	False
219	npr	left_center_bias	2019-09-24	Since the 1970s, California has failed to carry out its most basic tasks under the Clean Air Act," said Wheeler.	California's population, topography, weather and other factors do worsen air pollution there, but the state also is widely recognized as a leader in improving air quality.	Wheeler says California represents a disproportionate share of the backlog of such plans."	Under the Clean Air Act, states that don't meet federal air quality standards are required to submit "State Implementation Plans."	"I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California, which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air, more than any other place in the country," says Janet McCabe, who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute.		Trump Administration Escalates Battle Over Environmental Regulations With California The Trump administration has escalated its fight with California over environmental regulations. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler sent a letter Monday to the California Air Resources Board threatening to withdraw billions of dollars in federal highway money unless the state clears a backlog of air pollution control plans." California has the worst air quality in the United States, with 82 nonattainment areas and 34 million people living in areas that do not meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards," Wheeler wrote. California's population, topography, weather and other factors do worsen air pollution there, but the state also is widely recognized as a leader in improving air quality. Under the Clean Air Act, states that don't meet federal air quality standards are required to submit "State Implementation Plans." Wheeler says California represents a disproportionate share of the backlog of such plans." Since the 1970s, California has failed to carry out its most basic tasks under the Clean Air Act," said Wheeler. He then laid out the penalties for failing to meet federal requirements, which include losing federal highway dollars. California is expected to receive about $8 billion in fiscal years 2019 and 2020. The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently. Last week the administration said it will revoke a waiver that allows California to set stricter car emission standards.A senior EPA official said the two actions were not linked and that California is the focus now because it represents the largest share of backlogged plans. Even though other states have similar backlogs, the administration has not sent letters to them. Gov. Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court. Newsom called Wheeler's letter a "brazen political stunt." The White House has no interest in helping California comply with the Clean Air Act to improve the health and well-being of Californians. This letter is a threat of pure retaliation," Newsom says. Former EPA officials say they were surprised Wheeler sent the letter to California."I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California, which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air, more than any other place in the country," says Janet McCabe, who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute. McCabe says it's unusual for the EPA to publicly criticize a state in this way. She says typically the agency would communicate with a state privately and work out differences to encourage a cooperative rather than adversarial relationship.	False
789	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-04-29	e want to eliminate confusion," Freire said, "by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how we're protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law."	In an op-ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday, Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change, rather than those which contribute to it.	As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air, land and water, our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency," said JP Freire, an associate administrator for public affairs.	For instance, the White House has proposed cutting funding and regulations regarding lead poisoning prevention and is considering rewriting regulations concerning smog.	The announcement, made late on Friday evening, left empty what was previously the "official government site" providing "comprehensive information on the issue of climate change and global warming".		EPA wipes its climate change site as protesters march in Washington The US Environmental Protection Agency's main climate change website is "undergoing changes" to better reflect "the agency's new direction" under Donald Trump. The announcement, made late on Friday evening, left empty what was previously the "official government site" providing "comprehensive information on the issue of climate change and global warming". The change came a day before thousands gathered in Washington DC and other US cities to protest about inaction on climate change, and hours before the symbolic 100-day mark of the Trump administration. At the marquee climate protest, the People's Climate March in Washington, tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House. Organizers said about 300 sister marches or rallies were being held around the country, including in Seattle, Boston and San Francisco. In Chicago, marchers headed from the city's federal plaza to Trump Tower. In Denver, marchers were met with a dose of spring snow. Some of the marches drew celebrity attendees, including former vice-president Al Gore and actor Leonardo DiCaprio in the capital and senator and former candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination Bernie Sanders at an event in Montpelier, Vermont." onored to join Indigenous leaders and native peoples as they fight for climate justice," DiCaprio tweeted. Any marchers who used their phones to look at the EPA climate change website would have been greeted with a message from the new administration: "This page is being updated." As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air, land and water, our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency," said JP Freire, an associate administrator for public affairs. Previously, the website housed data on greenhouse gas emissions from large polluters and reports on the effects of climate change and its impact on human health." e want to eliminate confusion," Freire said, "by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how we're protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law." Information from previous administrations is archived as a link from the EPA's website. The EPA is currently led by Scott Pruitt, a former Oklahoma attorney general who has denied that carbon dioxide causes global warming. The Trump administration has called for budget cuts of nearly one-third at the EPA and has sought to weaken protections for human health. For instance, the White House has proposed cutting funding and regulations regarding lead poisoning prevention and is considering rewriting regulations concerning smog. It has already rolled back a law that prevented coalmining companies from dumping waste in streams. In an op-ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday, Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change, rather than those which contribute to it. The senator from Vermont wrote: "No matter what agenda President Trump and his administration of climate deniers push, it is clear that jobs in clean energy like wind and solar are growing much more rapidly than jobs in the coal, oil and gas sectors."	True
310	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-06-27	Despite this, a report from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) said that the trend could potentially extend into the month of May.	Coupled with a rise in renewables has been a trend of declining coal consumption.	The trend will happen sporadically throughout the next several years, says the IEEFA, as renewable energy becomes cheaper and the world's attention focuses on mitigating the effects of carbon-fueled climate change by turning away from fossil fuels.	However, experts noted that several coal plants were down for routine maintenance in April, and the month saw an increase in wind generation and a drop in energy demand.	The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry, which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy.		The US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal for the first time ever in April In April, for the first time ever, the US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal in a single month. According to data from the US Energy Information Administration, hydroelectric dams, solar panels, and wind turbines generated 68.5 million megawatt-hours of energy during the month of April 2019. This was compared to 60 million megawatt-hours of energy produced from coal in the same month. The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry, which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy. The US has been shifting toward natural gas, which is not only cheaper than coal, but also emits less carbon dioxide. However, experts noted that several coal plants were down for routine maintenance in April, and the month saw an increase in wind generation and a drop in energy demand. This suggests that coal could easily take over from renewable sources in the following months. Despite this, a report from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) said that the trend could potentially extend into the month of May. The trend will happen sporadically throughout the next several years, says the IEEFA, as renewable energy becomes cheaper and the world's attention focuses on mitigating the effects of carbon-fueled climate change by turning away from fossil fuels. Growth in both solar and wind power has been particularly stark with the former producing 48 times more electricity than it did a decade ago due to cheaper equipment and government incentives. Coupled with a rise in renewables has been a trend of declining coal consumption. Last year, coal hit a nearly 40-year low in terms of proportional usage in the U.S. Coal has fallen out of favor in part due to decreasing costs of natural gas. In 2016, it was dethroned as the America's fuel of choice by natural gas, a feat aided in part by a thriving hydro-fracking industry that continues to pump abundant fossil fuels out of the Bakken Oil Shale in North Dakota. The Trump administration on Wednesday completed one of its biggest rollbacks of environmental rules, replacing a landmark Obama-era effort that sought to wean the nation's electrical grid off coal-fired power plants and their climate-damaging pollution. Environmental Protection Agency chief Andrew Wheeler, a former coal industry lobbyist, signed a replacement rule that gives states leeway in deciding whether to require efficiency upgrades at existing coal plants. Wheeler said coal-fired power plants remained essential to the power grid, something that opponents deny.'Americans want reliable energy that they can afford,' he said at a news conference. There's no denying 'the fact that fossil fuels will continue to be an important part of the mix,' he said.	False
32	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-11-15	This engineering solution that will end up costing nearly six billion euros has got to work," Transport Minister Paola De Micheli said.	But for the people who live here it's a real problem," Litschauer said, cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo."	We need to be resilient and adapt.	The Serenissima, as the floating city is called, is home to a mere 50,000 residents but receives 36 million global visitors each year.A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city, but it has been plagued by cost overruns, corruption scandals and delays."	Many, including Venice's mayor, have blamed the disaster on global warming and warned that Italy -- a country prone to natural disasters -- must wake up to the risks posed by ever more volatile seasons."	The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying," she said, wondering if climate change was to blame. <sep> Tourists are taking pictures but the city is suffering." <sep> The Locanda Al Leon hotel said its bookings had suffered from the international media coverage of the flood, with some guests cancelling their rooms after seeing images of Venice underwater. <sep> 	Italy declares state of emergency in Venice after flood... Much of Venice was left under water this week after the highest tide in 50 years ripped through the historic Italian city (AFP Photo/Filippo MONTEFORTE )Venice (AFP) - Italy on Thursday declared a state of emergency for Venice after an exceptional tide surged through churches, shops and homes, causing millions of euros worth of damage to the UNESCO city. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said the cabinet had approved the state of emergency and ordered the immediate release of 20 million euros ($22 million) in funds for "the most urgent interventions" in the devastated city after Tuesday's flooding. Despite the emergency, tourists larked around in the flooded St Mark's Square in the sunshine, snapping selfies in their neon plastic boots and taking advantage of a respite in bad weather which has driven the high tides. Sirens warning of fresh flooding rang through the canal city early Thursday but the water level remained low compared to Tuesday's tide, the highest in 50 years. Conte, who has called the flooding "a blow to the heart of our country", met Venice's mayor and emergency services before jumping in a speed boat to visit businesses and locals affected by the tide. Residents whose houses had been hit would immediately get up to 5,000 euros in government aid, while restaurant and shop owners could receive up to 20,000 euros and apply for more later, he said. Several museums remained closed to the public on Thursday. As authorities assessed the extent of the damage to Venice's cultural treasures, such as St Mark's Basilica where water invaded the crypt, locals were defiant. Many stopped for their habitual coffees at flooded bars, drinking their espresso while standing in several inches of water. Austrian tourist Cornelia Litschauer, 28, said she felt mixed emotions seeing Venice's famous square half submerged." For the tourists it's amazing, it's something to see. But for the people who live here it's a real problem," Litschauer said, cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo." It's strange. Tourists are taking pictures but the city is suffering." The Locanda Al Leon hotel said its bookings had suffered from the international media coverage of the flood, with some guests cancelling their rooms after seeing images of Venice underwater. Under the arches of the Ducal Palace, a couple from Hong Kong posed for photos in the chilly morning sun." This (trip) was planned a long time ago so we couldn't change it," groom Jay Wong, 34, said." Actually this is a good experience. It's an adventure." Tuesday's "acqua alta," or high waters, submerged around 80 percent of the city, officials said. Only once since records began in 1923 has the water crept even higher, reaching 1.94 metres in 1966. Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi arrived for a private tour of the damage sustained to the basilica, while rival leader of the Italian right Matteo Salvini was due to drop by for the same on Friday. French tourist Manon Gaudre, 22, said seeing Venice submerged was a "unique experience"." The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying," she said, wondering if climate change was to blame. Many, including Venice's mayor, have blamed the disaster on global warming and warned that Italy -- a country prone to natural disasters -- must wake up to the risks posed by ever more volatile seasons." We need to be resilient and adapt. We need a policy that looks at the climate through completely different eyes," Environment Minister Sergio Costa said Thursday. Mayor Luigi Brugnaro has estimated the damage to Venice at hundreds of millions of euros. The Serenissima, as the floating city is called, is home to a mere 50,000 residents but receives 36 million global visitors each year.A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city, but it has been plagued by cost overruns, corruption scandals and delays." This engineering solution that will end up costing nearly six billion euros has got to work," Transport Minister Paola De Micheli said. The plan involves 78 gates that can be raised to protect Venice's lagoon during high tides -- but a recent attempt to test part of it caused worrying vibrations and engineers discovered it had rusted.	True
192	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-03-28	imilarly problematic, Beto has pointed to fracked natural gas as a potential part of the solution to the climate crisis when the reality is that there is simply no room for new fossil fuel development of any sort, including fracked gas.	I'll tell you what: I haven't seen anything better that addresses the singular crisis we face, a crisis that could at its worst lead to extinction," he said.	torms like Harvey are only going to become more frequent and more severe and more devastating and ultimately they'll compromise the ability to live in a city like Houston, Texas," he told the audience.	O'Rourke signalled support for reducing the country's dependence on fossil fuels and investing in green technology to reach net zero emissions."	The seeds of a decisive and urgent approach were visible in his first campaign visits to Iowa in March, when O'Rourke praised the radical climate change-led proposals in the Green New Deal, citing his home state's struggles with extreme weather such as droughts and hurricanes."	"We have seen the result, which is an emergency of booming fossil fuel production here in the United States at precisely the time we need to be urgently moving away from those dirty fuels," Turnbull said." <sep> o be able to come from Texas and show we can reduce our pollution, we can invest in clean energy … I think that's a strong message." <sep> 	Beto O'Rourke: just how green is the Texas Democrat? It was not hard for Beto O'Rourke to seem like a champion of green issues during his eye-catching Senate campaign in America's 2018 midterm elections – after all, he was up against Ted Cruz, a climate change denier. Now, as the former US congressman vies to be the Democratic candidate to run against Donald Trump in the 2020 race for the White House, he faces much closer scrutiny on the subject. Environmental advocates and experts wait to see if – as O'Rourke pivots from an election in a conservative-led oil state to a national primary race heavily influenced by left-leaning Democratic candidates – he will have more latitude and desire to put progressive green policies at the heart of his strategy." e didn't really emphasise climate change and global warming very much when he was running against Ted Cruz, but he's got a field that is absolutely filled with people who are making it a campaign item for voters to consider, and I think he's going to have to adjust his narrative when he's out on the trail," said Robert Forbis, an assistant professor of political science at Texas Tech University. "He's going to have to take a pretty strong stand." The seeds of a decisive and urgent approach were visible in his first campaign visits to Iowa in March, when O'Rourke praised the radical climate change-led proposals in the Green New Deal, citing his home state's struggles with extreme weather such as droughts and hurricanes." torms like Harvey are only going to become more frequent and more severe and more devastating and ultimately they'll compromise the ability to live in a city like Houston, Texas," he told the audience. O'Rourke signalled support for reducing the country's dependence on fossil fuels and investing in green technology to reach net zero emissions." ome will criticise the Green New Deal for being too bold or being unmanageable. I'll tell you what: I haven't seen anything better that addresses the singular crisis we face, a crisis that could at its worst lead to extinction," he said. "Literally the future of the world depends on us." Cruz held his Senate seat with a narrow win over O'Rourke last November. The Republican has dismissed climate change as a "pseudoscientific theory" and wrote an opinion article in 2017 urging Trump to rip up the landmark Paris climate agreement.O'Rourke, meanwhile, wrote a blog backing the Paris accord and during six years in Congress he successfully worked to secure federal protection for more than 7,000 acres of mountainous land on the outskirts of his native El Paso. The League of Conservation Voters' National Environmental Scorecard gives Cruz a lifetime rating of 4% based on his voting record in Congress; O'Rourke's score is 95%. Still, O'Rourke's history on environmental issues is more complex than that number might suggest – perhaps unsurprisingly for a politician who hails from west Texas. Texas has more installed wind power capacity than any other state and solar power is growing. But the state's economy is heavily dependent on the fossil fuel industry, which also wields immense political clout.O'Rourke received $476,325 in campaign contributions from oil and gas sources in the 2017-18 election cycle, according to the Center for Responsive Politics – second nationally to Cruz, albeit not from Pacs and a small percentage of his total donations. This helped fuel accusations that O'Rourke is more of a fossil fuel ally than his lofty rhetoric might imply. The Sludge, an investigative website, reported last December that O'Rourke's Senate campaign failed to comply with a pledge not to knowingly accept contributions of more than $200 from the oil and gas industry.O'Rourke has not yet signed up to the pledge for 2020. "Already, five declared presidential candidates have officially signed the No Fossil Fuel Money pledge, meaning more than a third of declared Democratic candidates have done so," said David Turnbull, strategic communications director of Oil Change US, a group that urges politicians to commit to clean energy." e look forward to the sixth candidate signing the full No Fossil Fuel Money pledge, and we're hopeful that Beto might be that candidate."O'Rourke's campaign did not respond to questions about whether he plans to sign the pledge or how his qualified support for natural gas is compatible with the Green New Deal. In 2015, O'Rourke twice voted to repeal the nationwide ban on exporting crude oil internationally, arguing that lifting the prohibition would boost the economy and national security. "We have seen the result, which is an emergency of booming fossil fuel production here in the United States at precisely the time we need to be urgently moving away from those dirty fuels," Turnbull said." imilarly problematic, Beto has pointed to fracked natural gas as a potential part of the solution to the climate crisis when the reality is that there is simply no room for new fossil fuel development of any sort, including fracked gas. Like with his support for the removal of the crude export ban, we hope that when Beto lays out his full climate policies it will reflect the fact that we can't afford any new fossil fuels of any sort, including gas." Given Texas's critical importance to the environmental and economic future of the country, a Texas presidential candidate can deliver a powerful green narrative, said Luke Metzger, executive director of Environment Texas, an advocacy group. "I think Texas has a real interesting story to tell in terms of our both being number one in the country for global warming pollution but also being number one for renewable energy," he said." o be able to come from Texas and show we can reduce our pollution, we can invest in clean energy … I think that's a strong message."	False
233	npr	left_center_bias	2019-08-08	And the problem is getting more severe."	If greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase, as they are doing today, it will exacerbate those challenges and eventually make it all but impossible to control global warming without creating serious food shortages.	Controlling emissions from agriculture is also a food-security issue.	There's a growing consensus that a transition to a more plant-centered diet would help.	The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum: how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture, deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally.	"Delaying action" on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, they continue, "could result in some irreversible impacts on some ecosystems." <sep> The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that. <sep> Climate change, including increases in frequency and intensity of extremes, has adversely impacted food security and terrestrial ecosystems, as well as contributed to desertification and land degradation in many regions," the report's authors write. <sep> For example, for countries that have lost tree cover in the past century, reforestation can help suck greenhouse gases out of the air, while also preventing soil from drying up. <sep> Warns Agriculture Must Change Humans must drastically alter food production to prevent the most catastrophic effects of global warming, according to a new report from the United Nations panel on climate change. <sep> To Slow Global Warming, U.N. <sep> Given how much land it takes to grow food to feed livestock, meat production is a leading cause of deforestation.A report released last month by the World Resources Institute finds that if current dietary patterns continue, an additional 593 million hectares — which is almost twice the size of India — would be needed to feed the projected 9.8 billion people (the anticipated population) by 2050. <sep> The new report adds weight and detail to a warning put out by the same panel of scientists last fall, in which they sounded the alarm about the inadequacy of the pledges countries have made so far to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. <sep> If current trends continue, but agricultural productivity does not increase beyond 2010 levels, the WRI report concludes that most of the globe's remaining forests would need to be cleared to feed the world. <sep> At that time, the panel broadly suggested that farmland would need to shrink and forests would need to grow to keep Earth from getting more than 1.5 degrees Celsius hotter than it was in the preindustrial era. <sep> Reducing food waste can also help reduce a country's greenhouse gas footprint. <sep> Greenhouse gases from food production create a vicious cycle: As Earth gets hotter, farming gets more difficult in many places, which forces farmers to clear more land to grow food." <sep> Scientists say the only way to achieve that reduction is to significantly increase the amount of land that's covered in trees and other vegetation and significantly reduce the amount of methane and other greenhouse gases that come from raising livestock such as cows, sheep and goats. <sep> The panel of scientists looked at the climate change effects of agriculture, deforestation and other land use, such as harvesting peat and managing grasslands and wetlands. <sep> Emissions from agricultural production are projected to increase," the authors warn. <sep> 	To Slow Global Warming, U.N. Warns Agriculture Must Change Humans must drastically alter food production to prevent the most catastrophic effects of global warming, according to a new report from the United Nations panel on climate change. The panel of scientists looked at the climate change effects of agriculture, deforestation and other land use, such as harvesting peat and managing grasslands and wetlands. Together, those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions, including more than 40% of methane. That's important because methane is particularly good at trapping heat in the atmosphere. And the problem is getting more severe." Emissions from agricultural production are projected to increase," the authors warn. "Delaying action" on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, they continue, "could result in some irreversible impacts on some ecosystems." This is the latest in a series of reports from the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The new report adds weight and detail to a warning put out by the same panel of scientists last fall, in which they sounded the alarm about the inadequacy of the pledges countries have made so far to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At that time, the panel broadly suggested that farmland would need to shrink and forests would need to grow to keep Earth from getting more than 1.5 degrees Celsius hotter than it was in the preindustrial era. Global temperatures have already risen about 1 degree Celsius in the past 150 years. To meet that temperature target, global greenhouse gas emissions will need to fall by 40% to 50% in the next decade. Scientists say the only way to achieve that reduction is to significantly increase the amount of land that's covered in trees and other vegetation and significantly reduce the amount of methane and other greenhouse gases that come from raising livestock such as cows, sheep and goats. The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that. For example, for countries that have lost tree cover in the past century, reforestation can help suck greenhouse gases out of the air, while also preventing soil from drying up. Reducing food waste can also help reduce a country's greenhouse gas footprint. Controlling emissions from agriculture is also a food-security issue. Greenhouse gases from food production create a vicious cycle: As Earth gets hotter, farming gets more difficult in many places, which forces farmers to clear more land to grow food." Climate change, including increases in frequency and intensity of extremes, has adversely impacted food security and terrestrial ecosystems, as well as contributed to desertification and land degradation in many regions," the report's authors write. If greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase, as they are doing today, it will exacerbate those challenges and eventually make it all but impossible to control global warming without creating serious food shortages. The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum: how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture, deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally. Scientists and economists have been studying the effects of our diets on the environment for years. There's a growing consensus that a transition to a more plant-centered diet would help. Currently, about 50% of the globe's vegetated land is dedicated to agriculture — and about 30% of cropland is used to grow grain for animal feed. Given how much land it takes to grow food to feed livestock, meat production is a leading cause of deforestation.A report released last month by the World Resources Institute finds that if current dietary patterns continue, an additional 593 million hectares — which is almost twice the size of India — would be needed to feed the projected 9.8 billion people (the anticipated population) by 2050. Right now, agriculture generates an estimated 25% of annual greenhouse gas emissions, according to the WRI; that's when you combine food production and the land-use changes associated with farming, such as clearing vegetation and plowing. If current trends continue, but agricultural productivity does not increase beyond 2010 levels, the WRI report concludes that most of the globe's remaining forests would need to be cleared to feed the world. And the globe would exceed the greenhouse gas emission targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	True
474	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2018-08-06	"The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real-world problems."	Kavanaugh addressed that in the hydrofluorocarbons case: "Under the Constitution, congressional inaction does not license an agency to take matters into its own hands, even to solve a pressing policy issue such as climate change."	One prominent example came last year in a majority opinion that found the EPA lacks the authority to regulate hydrofluorocarbons, chemicals linked to global warming.	There are also cases where he found that industrial groups have standing to oppose environmental restrictions.	In his opinions on environmental issues, Kavanaugh has often stressed the importance of policies to protect against climate change before saying that Congress, not the EPA, should create those policies.		Environmental groups troubled by Supreme Court pick Brett Kavanaugh's record Environmental groups were not going to be happy with anyone President Donald Trump picked for the Supreme Court. But the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh has them especially worried. A conservative who would replace the more moderate Justice Anthony Kennedy, Kavanaugh has a record of slapping back Environmental Protection Agency regulations during his 12 years as a federal appeals court judge. Kavanaugh could shift the court to the right in many areas. But Kennedy was especially pivotal on environmental cases, ruling with the majority on nearly all of them over 30 years on the bench — and often siding with the environmentalists in the biggest cases. Kavanaugh has a narrower view of what environmental protections the federal government can implement. That was clear from an Associated Press review of his opinions while on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, along with other writings and speeches." It threatens to take us back to the old days," said Pat Gallagher, the legal director at the Sierra Club, recalling environmental disasters from the 1960s and '70s. "The Cuyahoga River, Love Canal — when there was no environmental protection." Kavanaugh's backers don't see him as anti-environment." His rulings in cases involving the EPA say far more about the aggressive nature of the EPA in terms of trying to stretch beyond its breaking point its mandate from Congress," said John Malcolm, vice president of the conservative Heritage Foundation's Institute for Constitutional Government. Republicans hope the Senate can confirm Kavanaugh by the time the court's next session begins Oct. 1. But that is in doubt because of delays in reviewing documents related to Kavanaugh's time in President George W. Bush's administration. In his opinions on environmental issues, Kavanaugh has often stressed the importance of policies to protect against climate change before saying that Congress, not the EPA, should create those policies. One prominent example came last year in a majority opinion that found the EPA lacks the authority to regulate hydrofluorocarbons, chemicals linked to global warming. Kavanaugh wrote: "EPA's well-intentioned policy objectives with respect to climate change do not on their own authorize the agency to regulate." William Buzbee, a Georgetown Law professor who teaches constitutional and environmental law, said Kavanaugh often rules that either Congress didn't delegate duties clearly enough to the EPA or that the agency wasn't carrying them out correctly — in contrast with a history of judges giving wide latitude to agencies to try to solve problems." It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power," Buzbee said. "The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real-world problems." President Barack Obama relied heavily on administrative action as Republicans controlled Congress for most of his presidency and resisted passing laws that favored environmental protections over companies. Kavanaugh addressed that in the hydrofluorocarbons case: "Under the Constitution, congressional inaction does not license an agency to take matters into its own hands, even to solve a pressing policy issue such as climate change." Kavanaugh took similar approaches in two major 2012 rulings. In one, Kavanaugh dissented from the circuit, wanting to grant further review in a case in which the appeals court upheld the EPA's ability to regulate greenhouse gases. In another, Kavanaugh wrote the majority opinion to eliminate a 2011 EPA rule limiting emissions from power plants and other sources to reduce pollution in neighboring states. Writing for a divided panel, he found that this "good neighbor" rule overstepped the EPA's authority. The Supreme Court overruled Kavanaugh. In a speech last year at the American Enterprise Institute, Kavanaugh praised the late Justice Antonin Scalia for applying a principle laid out by Chief Justice William Rehnquist to an EPA case. The "major questions doctrine," he said, "is critical to limiting the ability of agencies to make major policy decisions that belong to Congress, at least unless Congress clearly delegates that authority." Still, Kavanaugh has not always ruled against environmental regulation. In 2010, he wrote the majority opinion for a divided panel when trucking groups sued the EPA over California's regulations for engines such as those that power refrigeration systems on trucks. Kavanaugh praised the agency for properly following Congress' directions in delegating that narrow area of regulation to California. In environmental cases, judges often must sort out who has the legal standing to challenge regulations or push for protections." The Supreme Court now for decades has said that environmental and aesthetic interests count for standing," Buzbee said. "My sense is they count less for Judge Kavanaugh." In a 2014 case, he wrote the unanimous opinion finding that environmental groups did not have standing to challenge an EPA decision not to tighten carbon monoxide standards. There are also cases where he found that industrial groups have standing to oppose environmental restrictions. One of those came last year, when he was on a panel that unanimously found that logging interests had standing to challenge the designation of 9.5 million acres in California, Oregon and Washington as a critical habitat for the northern spotted owl. He wrote that industry groups showed clearly that they would face economic harm if logging was banned in the area. There are exceptions in his record. Kavanaugh was part of a unanimous 2009 ruling that found road- and transportation-building groups did not have standing to challenge some EPA rules. If Kavanaugh is confirmed in time for the new court session, the first case he'd hear would deal with an environmental issue. In the case, the private owners of land used for logging in Louisiana object to their property's inclusion in the critical habitat for the dusky gopher frog, which was added to the endangered species list in 2001, when fewer than 100 were known to be in existence — all in southern Mississippi. None of the frogs has been spotted in Louisiana for more than 50 years.A federal appeals court found the land's inclusion as a critical habitat was appropriate.	False
81	motherjones	left_bias	2019-09-20	But Booker argues that rebates and investments in poor communities could help solve that problem.	"Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future, the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well-being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus."	"And to say it's not, to say you're going to get rid of nuclear, really you are handicapping [and] undermining our ability to get to the ambitious goals we must have."	As part of the wide-ranging conversation about climate change, he explained how he squares his support for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities."	This is one major difference between Booker and his opponent Bernie Sanders, who has called nuclear power a "false solution" and actually phases it out in his climate plan.	And as the mayor of Newark, Booker tackled the city's lead water crisis and industrial pollution. <sep> 	Cory Booker Says Any Serious Climate Plan Has to Include Nuclear Power Among the 2020 presidential candidates, Cory Booker stands out for his record of advocating for the people who bear the brunt of pollution and toxic waste. Before his presidential run, he traveled to Louisiana, North Carolina, and Alabama to inform a sweeping bill that codifies the federal government's requirement to incorporate the interests of communities of color in environmental regulation. And as the mayor of Newark, Booker tackled the city's lead water crisis and industrial pollution. Booker is also one of the few presidential contenders to embrace nuclear energy openly—his $3 trillion plan to address the climate crisis includes $20 billion in research and development of nuclear technology. This is one major difference between Booker and his opponent Bernie Sanders, who has called nuclear power a "false solution" and actually phases it out in his climate plan. The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia, Washington, D.C. for an exclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world. As part of the wide-ranging conversation about climate change, he explained how he squares his support for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities."  didn't come to the United States Senate as a big nuclear guy," Booker told Grist's executive editor Nikhil Swaminathan on Thursday, "but when I started looking at the urgency of climate change, I saw that over 50 percent of our non-carbon-producing power right now comes from nuclear." Nuclear has to be a part of the blend," Booker added. "And to say it's not, to say you're going to get rid of nuclear, really you are handicapping [and] undermining our ability to get to the ambitious goals we must have." Booker also supports a fee or tax on carbon pollution that would be used in part to fund clean energy and efficiency investments. (South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg is also in favor of price on carbon, and explained his plan to Climate Desk this week.) "I don't think there's any pathway to get to where we need to go without putting some kind of price on carbon," he said. "A lot of people say, 'well gas is so cheap right now.' Yeah, it's cheap because [the price] does not include the full cost to humanity." Booker's support for nuclear power and a carbon fee has tempered any praise from the Climate Justice Alliance, a network that fears these policies would hurt more than help affected communities. Indeed, critics of a carbon tax worry that it would be regressive, hurting the poor more than the rich. But Booker argues that rebates and investments in poor communities could help solve that problem. And while historically, nuclear power companies have built their plants—and dumped the waste—in poor communities of color, Booker believes it doesn't have to be that way: He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a "community process to deal with the waste." Nuclear has proven to be one of the safest ways to advance carbon neutrality," he said. "Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future, the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well-being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus."	True
676	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-10	"To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator."	On Tuesday afternoon, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt ― who sued to halt the plan last year when he was Oklahoma's attorney general ― released a proposal to eliminate the policy without any replacement, leaving the country without a national strategy to adapt to global warming.	But the proposal to scrap the policy without any kind of replacement to curb greenhouse gases underscores the extent to which the Trump administration's refusal to acknowledge basic climate science is leaving the country vulnerable to global warming effects that are no longer theoretical."	Scientists say the frequency and severity of natural disasters like these are linked to climbing global temperatures.	t is crazy to think about having an EPA administrator who has nothing to offer in replacement of an admittedly not-so-good regulatory solution," former Rep. Bob Inglis (R-S.C.), now the executive director of the conservative environmental advocacy group RepublicEn, told HuffPost by phone on Tuesday.		Trump Axes Climate Plan As The World Burns Wildfires are raging through California's wine country. Flooded homes in Houston, Texas, are still rotting. Puerto Ricans are languishing in darkness, collecting drinking water from streams. And South Florida and the U.S. Virgin Islands were still picking through the rubble, as yet another hurricane made landfall over the mouth of the Mississippi River. Scientists say the frequency and severity of natural disasters like these are linked to climbing global temperatures. But the Trump administration on Tuesday announced plans to repeal the United States' only major policy to combat climate change. The Clean Power Plan ― a set of Obama-era regulations aimed at slashing emissions from coal-fired power plants and boosting renewable energy production ― had yet to go into effect, after being temporarily blocked by the Supreme Court since February 2016. On Tuesday afternoon, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt ― who sued to halt the plan last year when he was Oklahoma's attorney general ― released a proposal to eliminate the policy without any replacement, leaving the country without a national strategy to adapt to global warming. Rain soaked the state last winter, stacking its mountains with colossal snowdrifts and quenching soil left parched after more than half a decade of historic drought. But record-breaking heat baked the West in July and August, drying its woodlands and leaving it vulnerable to the sort of blaze now engulfing the wine-producing region neighboring San Francisco." hese people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this time," he added, referring to the Trump administration. Following an exceptionally hot summer, 172 fires ― 78 of which qualified as "large" incidents according to the National Interagency Fire Center ― burned more than 8 million acres in western Montana and the Pacific Northwest. That's almost double the 10-year average of 5.5 million acres. Elsewhere, a spate of fierce hurricanes inundated parts of the South and Caribbean. Warmer oceans tend to exacerbate storms and shift their directions. After Hurricane Harvey dumped 30 inches of rain on Houston in August, scientists warned that the Category 4 storm served as a teachable example of the type of weather event their models predict will become more common as the planet continues to warm. The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor. Hurricane Irma rampaged through the Caribbean before slamming into Florida as a Category 5 beast, knocking out power for millions and ultimately killing 69 people. Less than two weeks later, Hurricane Maria pummeled Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, crippling the U.S. territories' power grids and leaving whole areas uninhabitable. In Puerto Rico, which has a larger population than 21 U.S. states, the death toll continues to climb, hitting 39 this week as the island's aging utility struggles to rebuild electrical transmission wires. But the proposal to scrap the policy without any kind of replacement to curb greenhouse gases underscores the extent to which the Trump administration's refusal to acknowledge basic climate science is leaving the country vulnerable to global warming effects that are no longer theoretical." t is crazy to think about having an EPA administrator who has nothing to offer in replacement of an admittedly not-so-good regulatory solution," former Rep. Bob Inglis (R-S.C.), now the executive director of the conservative environmental advocacy group RepublicEn, told HuffPost by phone on Tuesday. "To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator."	False
678	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-09-06	But Republicans don't want to talk about the problem — or even admit it exists.	We have a moral responsibility to address this urgent threat.	What is lacking is the political will of Republican elected officials, like you, to do anything about it.	This is a time for action – action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster, and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	But with so many citizens of your state suffering the direct consequences of climate change, I hope you can summon the moral courage to change course.	Just as the evidence of crisis has made itself apparent in Texas, so has the fact that clean energy provides a better path for all made itself evident in the Lone Star State. <sep> We face an existential threat, and in the face of this, your specious economic arguments and lame, fossil fuel-endorsed excuses fall flat. <sep> By doing so, we will create broad prosperity, cleaner air and water, cheaper energy for all, and, most importantly, we will save lives. <sep> Instead, the Republican strategy has consisted of aggressive denial of the facts coupled with staunch obstruction of any serious action to address the problem. <sep> Tragically, no industry has done more to block crucial action to address climate change than the oil industry. <sep> From super storms and floods like the disaster unfolding in Houston, to droughts and fires of unprecedented magnitude, the direct effects of climate change are now impossible to ignore. <sep> We have the knowledge and technology needed to prevent future catastrophes. <sep> We live in a time when it has become absolutely clear that global warming is starting to have a devastating affect on our lives. <sep> 	An Open Letter To Senators Cruz And Cornyn Of Texas Republican politicians often evoke the Bible when it suits their purposes. But they disregard some of its most important teachings when formulating policy. This includes the story of Noah's Ark. Noah's story holds powerful lessons for us today. We live in a time when it has become absolutely clear that global warming is starting to have a devastating affect on our lives. From super storms and floods like the disaster unfolding in Houston, to droughts and fires of unprecedented magnitude, the direct effects of climate change are now impossible to ignore. Rising sea levels will put whole swaths of coastal cities like Miami under water before the end of the century. Yet despite such ample evidence and warnings, the Republican Party still chooses to ignore the reality. And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act. After all, we have a surplus of evidence. What is lacking is the political will of Republican elected officials, like you, to do anything about it. The catastrophe unfolding in Houston is yet another stark warning. People are losing their homes and their jobs. Some have lost their lives. Scientists expect monster storms like Hurricane Harvey to increase in number — and intensify in magnitude —as warmer temperatures disrupt weather systems around the world. As I write, Hurricane Irma ― a terrifying superstorm with the highest wind speeds ever recorded in the Atlantic ― is cutting a destructive path through the Caribbean. Cities like Houston and New Orleans, on the Gulf of Mexico, face the threat of severe and life-threatening impacts. We have a moral responsibility to address this urgent threat. But Republicans don't want to talk about the problem — or even admit it exists. Instead, the Republican strategy has consisted of aggressive denial of the facts coupled with staunch obstruction of any serious action to address the problem. Tragically, no industry has done more to block crucial action to address climate change than the oil industry. In fact, as Hurricane Harvey barreled towards Houston, two Harvard researchers were simultaneously releasing a report that detailed how Exxon Mobil spent decades lying to the American people about climate change. Now Exxon, along with other major oil corporations like Valero, Shell, Citgo and Phillips 66, has been forced to shut down its Houston refinery because of flooding from the storm. Port Arthur, the planned terminus of the Keystone XL pipeline, is completely under water. The executives of these oil companies are bearing witness to the boomerang effect of burning fossil fuels. They are glimpsing a future that millions of Americans will face as the climate crisis intensifies. Senators, I hope that you will take some time to reflect. Few politicians have done more to prevent action on climate change than the two of you, which I suspect may have something to do with the $5.6 million you've taken from the oil and gas industry over the years. But with so many citizens of your state suffering the direct consequences of climate change, I hope you can summon the moral courage to change course. We face an existential threat, and in the face of this, your specious economic arguments and lame, fossil fuel-endorsed excuses fall flat. We know that fighting climate change will reduce costs and create millions of jobs. We have the knowledge and technology needed to prevent future catastrophes. By doing so, we will create broad prosperity, cleaner air and water, cheaper energy for all, and, most importantly, we will save lives. Just as the evidence of crisis has made itself apparent in Texas, so has the fact that clean energy provides a better path for all made itself evident in the Lone Star State. Texas leads the nation in wind power generation, and it's on the way to becoming a solar energy powerhouse. Senators, it's time for you to join the team that is trying to do the right thing – not just in the short run, but with an eye to our shared future. The people of Texas need you to get on board with the biggest economic opportunity of the 21st century: clean energy technology that will save lives, create jobs, and protect the amazing creation we all call home. On behalf of NextGen America, please know that the people of Houston are in our thoughts and prayers. We are also fully engaged in fundraising efforts to assist our fellow citizens affected by this catastrophe. Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this. This is a time for action – action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster, and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	True
846	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-24	In a major report last week, the prestigious UK journal, The Lancet, suggested that pollution of air and water, rather than carbon-induced global warming, is the real crisis facing the world, one being overlooked by environmental activists.	The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a "point of no return" is to be found in "political will."	Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today, the study found, but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide—"three times more deaths than from AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence."	These problems are just as real in Europe as they are elsewhere around the globe," he asserted.	The Lancet revealed that pollution-related diseases were responsible for an estimated 9 million premature deaths in 2015, or some 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence combined.	"Seasonal river flows are changing, and floods and droughts are more severe, more frequent than ever before." <sep> Pope Francis Calls for 'Prompt and Effective' Response to Climate Change The international summit "Water and Climate: Meeting of the Great Rivers of the World," sponsored by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) and other partners, is taking place in Rome's Capitol building (the "Campidoglio") from Oct. 23-25. <sep> Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient, most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problem—unlike the real pollution that is killing millions. <sep> e are here today because our climate is under threat," Mr. Vella said. <sep> In another speech at the summit Monday, Mr. Karmenu Vella, European Commissioner for Environment, Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, echoed the Pope's concerns regarding climate change, tying it into the situation of the world's rivers." <sep> Curiously, neither the European Commissioner nor the Pope made any mention to the extraordinary number of deaths caused by water and air pollution, preferring instead to focus on the nebulous and ideologically charged notion of anthropogenic climate change. <sep> In the Pope's written message to the meeting, conveyed by the Vatican's Secretary of State, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world, as well as his fervent desire that "the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses." <sep> In an essay in Friday's Financial Post, Solomon said that "most signatories are ignoring, if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments, undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios." <sep> 	Pope Francis Calls for 'Prompt and Effective' Response to Climate Change The international summit "Water and Climate: Meeting of the Great Rivers of the World," sponsored by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) and other partners, is taking place in Rome's Capitol building (the "Campidoglio") from Oct. 23-25. In the Pope's written message to the meeting, conveyed by the Vatican's Secretary of State, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world, as well as his fervent desire that "the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses." In another speech at the summit Monday, Mr. Karmenu Vella, European Commissioner for Environment, Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, echoed the Pope's concerns regarding climate change, tying it into the situation of the world's rivers." e are here today because our climate is under threat," Mr. Vella said. "Seasonal river flows are changing, and floods and droughts are more severe, more frequent than ever before." Climate change is raising the temperature of rivers and lakes, with major impacts on ecosystems and water quality. These problems are just as real in Europe as they are elsewhere around the globe," he asserted. The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a "point of no return" is to be found in "political will." The Paris Agreement reminds us of the need to prepare and adapt, and to build up our climate resilience," he said. In a major report last week, the prestigious UK journal, The Lancet, suggested that pollution of air and water, rather than carbon-induced global warming, is the real crisis facing the world, one being overlooked by environmental activists. The Lancet revealed that pollution-related diseases were responsible for an estimated 9 million premature deaths in 2015, or some 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence combined. Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today, the study found, but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide—"three times more deaths than from AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence." Curiously, neither the European Commissioner nor the Pope made any mention to the extraordinary number of deaths caused by water and air pollution, preferring instead to focus on the nebulous and ideologically charged notion of anthropogenic climate change. While to date there has not been a single documented case of a person being killed by carbon dioxide related "global warming," real pollution of air, water and land is killing an average of 25,000 people every day across the globe. Late last week, a report out of Canada suggested that many nations around the world have quietly begun ignoring or abandoning the energy goals outlined by the Paris Climate Accord. According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe, a Toronto-based environmental organization, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient, most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problem—unlike the real pollution that is killing millions. In an essay in Friday's Financial Post, Solomon said that "most signatories are ignoring, if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments, undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios." Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris," Solomon wrote. "The populist backlash — a revulsion at top-down governments laden with jet-setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses — has swept America with Trump's election, Great Britain with Brexit, much of Europe, and Australia." In the process, global warming enthusiasts are being swept out," he said.	False
883	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-12	When the wind doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine, the power doesn't flow.	There's none in Australia, that's for sure…Contrary to the breathless assertions that climate change is behind every weather event, in Australia, the floods are not bigger, the bushfires are not worse, the droughts are not deeper or longer, and the cyclones are not more severe than they were in the 1800s.	Here are some of the highlights:Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti-Christian societyIf science was all about "consensus" we'd still be living in cavesGreens want to make life nasty, brutish and shortWhere's the evidence for climate catastrophe?	More than 100 years of photography at Manly Beach in my electorate does not suggest that sea levels have risen despite frequent reports from climate alarmists that this is imminent.…But there's plenty of evidence that green lunacy is killing the Australian economyRenewables have more to do with virtue-signalling than with useful energyThere's a reason renewable energy is crap and it's so simple even lefties and greens should be able to understand itHydro aside, renewable energy should properly be referred to as intermittent and unreliable power.	This gives you an idea of just how badly infected are the nations of the free world by the green virus.		Delingpole: Aussie ex-PM Abbott Slams Climate Change 'Religion' Some of us knew this already. But you rarely hear it so trenchantly expressed by a former world leader – as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex-Prime Minister Tony Abbott in a hard-hitting, must-read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation. Abbott is one of only a handful of world leaders to have spoken out against the global warming "consensus." (The only other ones, recently, are former Czech president Václav Klaus and, of course, President Donald Trump). This gives you an idea of just how badly infected are the nations of the free world by the green virus. Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public. Abbott himself lost his job as Australia's prime minister at least in part because he was found guilty of wrongthink on climate change, which he once famously described as "crap". The man who replaced him as prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull – unfondly known as the "Honourable Member for Goldman Sachs" – is himself a leading tentacle of the Green Blob. Abbott's speech – which is causing Australia's notoriously left-wing media to explode like ripe watermelons struck by hollow-point bullets – ought to serve as a painful reminder to Australia's Liberal party of the talent they lost when they decided to knife this Jesuit-trained, Oxford-educated, rock-solid, family man conservative in the back and replace him with the slippery Davos-style globalist Turnbull. Here are some of the highlights:Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti-Christian societyIf science was all about "consensus" we'd still be living in cavesGreens want to make life nasty, brutish and shortWhere's the evidence for climate catastrophe? There's none in Australia, that's for sure…Contrary to the breathless assertions that climate change is behind every weather event, in Australia, the floods are not bigger, the bushfires are not worse, the droughts are not deeper or longer, and the cyclones are not more severe than they were in the 1800s. Sometimes, they do more damage but that's because there's more to destroy, not because their intensity has increased. More than 100 years of photography at Manly Beach in my electorate does not suggest that sea levels have risen despite frequent reports from climate alarmists that this is imminent.…But there's plenty of evidence that green lunacy is killing the Australian economyRenewables have more to do with virtue-signalling than with useful energyThere's a reason renewable energy is crap and it's so simple even lefties and greens should be able to understand itHydro aside, renewable energy should properly be referred to as intermittent and unreliable power. When the wind doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine, the power doesn't flow. Wind and solar power are like sailing ships; cheaper than powered boats, to be sure, but we've stopped using sail for transport because it couldn't be trusted to turn up on time. Because the weather is unpredictable, you never really know when renewable power is going to work. Its marginal cost is low but so is its reliability, so in the absence of industrial scale batteries, it always needs matching capacity from dependable coal, gas, hydro, or nuclear energy. This should always have been obvious. We think we're rational but where green policy is concerned we're little better than the AztecsOh and by the way, the way we're carrying on Western Civilization is on its way out…	False
850	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-12	Together, we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nation's most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future, putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good-paying, family-sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy," Brune said.	The press release said the new funding will be used to "maintain progress" despite the fate of the Clean Power Plan."	Since 2011, when Bloomberg Philanthropies first partnered with the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal Campaign, nearly 50 percent of the country's coal-fired power plants have announced their retirement, and deaths related to coal pollution have decreased by 42%.	Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of "dirty power plants."	"It was started and continues to be led by communities in both red and blue states who are tired of having their air and water poisoned when there are cleaner and cheaper alternatives available, cities and states that are determined to clean their air and reduce their costs, and businesses seeking to lower their energy bills while also doing their part for the climate."		Bloomberg Gives $64 Million to Fight Trump's Ending War on Coal — 'Kills 7,500 Americans Annually' The Sierra Club distributed a press release on Wednesday announcing it had received the $64 million donation to support its Beyond Coal campaign and other organizations with the same ideology that would like to put all coal operations out of business and the American workers who depend on them out of work. The press release stated:Pollution from coal-fired power plants is the largest source of carbon emissions and kills 7,500 Americans annually, down from 13,000 when the Beyond Coal campaign began expanding in 2011 through support from Bloomberg. To date, Bloomberg has invested over $100 million in protecting the environment and public health through its support of the Beyond Coal campaign. Since 2011, when Bloomberg Philanthropies first partnered with the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal Campaign, nearly 50 percent of the country's coal-fired power plants have announced their retirement, and deaths related to coal pollution have decreased by 42%. The press release said the new funding will be used to "maintain progress" despite the fate of the Clean Power Plan." he Trump administration has yet to realize that the war on coal was never led by Washington—and Washington cannot end it," Bloomberg said in the press release. "It was started and continues to be led by communities in both red and blue states who are tired of having their air and water poisoned when there are cleaner and cheaper alternatives available, cities and states that are determined to clean their air and reduce their costs, and businesses seeking to lower their energy bills while also doing their part for the climate." Without any federal regulations on carbon emissions, those groups have combined with market forces to close half the nation's coal-fired power plants over the past six years—and with this new grant, we aim to reach 60 percent by the end of 2020," Bloomberg said. Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of "dirty power plants." Together, we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nation's most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future, putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good-paying, family-sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy," Brune said. "All of this and we're just getting started. Our movement is growing and our momentum is unstoppable. Our clean energy future is now." President Trump signed an executive order in March ordering a review of the Clean Power Plan as well as other environmental regulations. Instead of Obama's stifling energy regulations, the Trump administration will promote policies that favor American "energy dominance." EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, who was one of the first Attorneys General to sue the EPA over the Clean Power Plan, is now undertaking the repeal of the Obama-era clean energy power grab.	True
418	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-11-28	Without such action, the planet faces a slew of devastating effects, including a mass die-off of coral reefs; an increase in the severity of natural disasters, such as wildfires; and a global economic hit in the trillions of dollars, according to a recent United Nations study.	He moved to lay blame on forest management policies during the visit instead, even suggesting that "raking" would help stop the scourge of wildfires, claims he appeared to repeat in his interview with the Post on Tuesday."	Among threats to health and the environment, the report also warned that sweeping damage would cut off as much as 10 percent of the U.S.	economy."	"You go to other places where they have denser trees — it's more dense, where the trees are more flammable — they don't have forest fires like this, because they maintain."		President Trump Says He's Too Intelligent To Believe In Climate Change President Donald Trump asserted that he had "very high levels of intelligence," and as such, did not believe in the scientific consensus surrounding climate change in a sweeping interview with The Washington Post published Tuesday." ne of the problems that a lot of people like myself, we have very high levels of intelligence but we're not necessarily such believers," said Trump, speaking to the Post's Josh Dawsey and Philip Rucker. "You look at our air and our water and it's right now at a record clean. ... As to whether or not it's man-made and whether or not the effects that you're talking about are there, I don't see it — not nearly like it is." Trump's statements, his latest in a long history of climate change denial, go against the vast majority of scientists who say the planet has rapidly warmed since the Industrial Revolution and will continue to do so unless humanity is able to dramatically scale back greenhouse gas emissions. Without such action, the planet faces a slew of devastating effects, including a mass die-off of coral reefs; an increase in the severity of natural disasters, such as wildfires; and a global economic hit in the trillions of dollars, according to a recent United Nations study. The White House released its own sweeping National Climate Assessment on the Friday after Thanksgiving. The 1,656-page report, compiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers, painted the bleakest portrait of the future United States yet, noting that the country had already warmed 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit over the past century and will warm a further 3 degrees by 2100 unless fossil fuel use is scaled back. Predictions even said that warming could approach 9 degrees or more by the end of the century. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Tuesday that the recent National Climate Assessment was "not based on facts." The report was compiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers. Among threats to health and the environment, the report also warned that sweeping damage would cut off as much as 10 percent of the U.S. economy." t's not based on facts. ... It's not data-driven," White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday. "We'd like to see something that is more data-driven. It's based on modeling." I wrote the climate scenarios chapter myself, so I can confirm it considers ALL scenarios, from those where we go carbon negative before end of century to those where carbon emissions continue to rise," Katharine Hayhoe, a co-author of the current assessment and director of the Climate Science Center at Texas Tech University, said in a tweet on Friday. The president has stayed firm on his anti-climate rhetoric in recent days, even after the devastating Camp fire in Northern California left at least 88 people dead. Trump toured the town of Paradise, which was incinerated, and said that his opinion of climate change hadn't shifted after the visit. He moved to lay blame on forest management policies during the visit instead, even suggesting that "raking" would help stop the scourge of wildfires, claims he appeared to repeat in his interview with the Post on Tuesday." he fire in California, where I was, if you looked at the floor, the floor of the fire they have trees that were fallen, they did no forest management, no forest maintenance, and you can light — you can take a match like this and light a tree trunk when that thing is laying there for more than 14 or 15 months," Trump said. "You go to other places where they have denser trees — it's more dense, where the trees are more flammable — they don't have forest fires like this, because they maintain."	False
213	yahoonews	left_center_bias	2019-10-17	Even more jarring, the report warned that climate change poses a "threat to the availability of the 30-year mortgage in various vulnerable and highly exposed areas."	Thanks to the continued buildup of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere due primarily to the use of fossil fuels, the rate at which the polar icecaps are melting continues to exceed previous estimates.	"There's only 3 percent of Miami-Dade County that's greater than 12 feet above sea level."	Despite warnings from the scientific community, developers including Trump have continued to invest in property that could be underwater before long."	&#39;Climate change will not be on the agenda&#39; of next G-7, White House says While scientists continue to warn that climate change poses an existential threat to the planet, President Trump won't be talking about it at next year's G-7 summit at one of his Florida golf resorts."		&#39;Climate change will not be on the agenda&#39; of next G-7, White House says While scientists continue to warn that climate change poses an existential threat to the planet, President Trump won't be talking about it at next year's G-7 summit at one of his Florida golf resorts." limate change will not be on the agenda," acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney told reporters gathered in the White House briefing room Thursday, without elaborating. Mulvaney announced that the G-7 meetings would be held on June 10 and 11 at the Trump National Doral Golf Club, just west of Miami, an area threatened by sea level rise brought on by climate change. With its low elevations and porous limestone bedrock, South Florida is particularly vulnerable to sea level rise. Despite warnings from the scientific community, developers including Trump have continued to invest in property that could be underwater before long." ust using the U.S. government projections, we could be at 11 to over 13 feet [of sea level rise] by the end of century," Harold Wanless, director of the University of Miami's geological sciences department and a leading expert on sea level rise, told Yahoo News. "There's only 3 percent of Miami-Dade County that's greater than 12 feet above sea level." Trump has labeled climate change a "hoax" concocted by the Chinese government in an attempt to ruin the U.S. economy, but not all members of the Republican Party agree. For the first time in a decade, Florida's state Senate held a meeting this week to discuss the impacts of climate change, the Miami Herald reported." here's a younger generation of conservatives in this state that aren't as much in denial," Republican Sen. Tom Lee, who chairs the Committee on Infrastructure and Security, told the Herald. Young climate activists like Sweden's Greta Thunberg have mobilized students around the world to hold school strikes to protest inaction from world leaders on what they see as a crisis." omething must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted," Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. "They can sense that we are making an impact. They obviously don't want that. So they are using several methods to mock and hate." While Trump continues to deny the threat that climate change poses to his own properties and the world at large, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco released a report Thursday on the financial risks that global warming poses. It found that properties like Doral that are likely to be underwater in the coming years are already selling for 15 percent less than those where flooding is not a threat. Even more jarring, the report warned that climate change poses a "threat to the availability of the 30-year mortgage in various vulnerable and highly exposed areas." Thanks to the continued buildup of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere due primarily to the use of fossil fuels, the rate at which the polar icecaps are melting continues to exceed previous estimates. As of Aug. 1 of this year, for instance, Greenland had lost a record 12.5 billion tons of ice. This year is on pace to become the second warmest on record, and all of the top 10 hottest years on record — with the exception of 1998 — have occurred since 2005. Download the Yahoo News app to customize your experience.• None Turkey's president Erdogan bluffed Trump out of Syria. Now what does he want?• None 'Five Eyes' in the dark: Will Trump and Barr destroy trust in U.S. intelligence?• None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president• None What my journey into homelessness taught me	False
374	foxnews	right_bias	2018-10-15	The report detailed how Earth's weather, health and ecosystems would be in better shape if the world's leaders could somehow limit future human-caused warming.	The agreement set voluntary greenhouse gas emission targets in an effort to lessen the impact of fossil fuels."	"But it could very well go back.	Trump's comments came just days after a Nobel Prize-winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a warning that global warming would increase climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security and economic growth.	Something's changing and it'll change back again," he said.		Trump hedges on climate change denial in wake of Hurricane Michael; says 'there is something there' President Trump on Monday once again backed off his previous claim that climate change is a hoax, but would not say whether or not he believed it was a man-made problem. Speaking at a Red Cross center in Georgia, where he was touring areas devastated by last week's Hurricane Michael, Trump said "there is something there" in response to a question on climate change from a reporter." here is something there, man-made or not," the president said, before deflecting to note that there have been previous storms that were much more intense and destructive than the recent slew of hurricanes to hit the Southeast. Trump's comments come a day after CBS aired an interview on "60 Minutes" with the president who said he doesn't want to put the U.S. at a disadvantage in responding to climate change."I think something's happening. Something's changing and it'll change back again," he said. "I don't think it's a hoax. I think there's probably a difference. But I don't know that it's man-made. I will say this: I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars. I don't want to lose millions and millions of jobs." Trump called climate change a hoax in November 2012 when he sent a tweet stating, "The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive." He later said he was joking about the Chinese connection, but in years since has continued to call global warming a hoax."I'm not denying climate change," he said in the interview. "But it could very well go back. You know, we're talking about over a ... millions of years." As far as the climate "changing back," temperature records kept by NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration show that the world hasn't had a cooler-than-average year since 1976 or a cooler-than-normal month since the end of 1985. Trump's comments came just days after a Nobel Prize-winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a warning that global warming would increase climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security and economic growth. The report detailed how Earth's weather, health and ecosystems would be in better shape if the world's leaders could somehow limit future human-caused warming. On Monday, the president said that he had heard of the recent report and that he'll "have to take a look at it." Trump added: "I want crystal clear water, I want the cleanest air on the planet." Citing concerns about the pact's economic impact, Trump said in 2017 that the U.S. will leave the Paris climate accord. The agreement set voluntary greenhouse gas emission targets in an effort to lessen the impact of fossil fuels." 'm truly an environmentalist," he said on Monday in regards to leaving the Paris Agreement. "But that doesn't mean we have to put one of our businesses out of business." The Associated Press contributed to this report.	True
149	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-03-21	Carbon offsets represent a drop in the bucket on an issue that requires unprecedented systemic change to avert climate disaster.	The announcement boosts Sanders' bona fides on the issue and gives him a leg up in a crowded field of Democrats putting more attention on climate change than ever before.	The newfound attention on climate change comes after the United Nations' stark warning in October that world governments have roughly a decade to halve global emissions or face an average temperature increase of at least 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit ― about half-a-degree Celisus more than what the world experiences today.	"We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources."	Sanders' announcement steels the campaign against accusations of hypocrisy, often made by Republicans who take an ideological stance against the scientific realities of climate change.	Once dubbed the "celebrities' choice in offset providers," NativeEnergy provides third-party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation ― a sort of LEED certification of for-profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society. <sep> Bernie Sanders Campaign Becomes 2020's First To Promise To Offset Carbon Emissions In a statement to HuffPost, the campaign said it plans to fund renewable energy projects to compensate for the carbon dioxide spewed by the planes and automobiles in which Sanders and his staff will travel while they barnstorm the nation ahead of the Democratic National Convention in July 2020." <sep> 	Bernie Sanders Campaign Becomes 2020's First To Promise To Offset Carbon Emissions In a statement to HuffPost, the campaign said it plans to fund renewable energy projects to compensate for the carbon dioxide spewed by the planes and automobiles in which Sanders and his staff will travel while they barnstorm the nation ahead of the Democratic National Convention in July 2020." ernie Sanders is a champion in the fight for climate justice and, like him, we know we need to address our emissions through action, not just rhetoric," Faiz Shakir, Sanders' campaign manager, said in a statement. "We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources." Climate change is already a central plank of Sanders' second White House bid. In December, two months before he announced his candidacy, the senator from Vermont hosted a televised town hall with climate scientists and advocates to discuss the crisis. In February, he attacked Trump for ignoring climate change in his State of the Union address. During his stump speeches, Sanders routinely skewers the fossil fuel industry and promises to enact a Green New Deal if elected. The announcement boosts Sanders' bona fides on the issue and gives him a leg up in a crowded field of Democrats putting more attention on climate change than ever before. The move comes a week after the Sanders campaign became the first to unionize. Sanders has also drawn heat recently for his uncertain stance on reparations for the descendants of slaves and for quietly hiring a journalist who frequently attacked his 2020 opponents on Twitter as an adviser. Carbon offsets represent a drop in the bucket on an issue that requires unprecedented systemic change to avert climate disaster. But transportation emissions make up the largest share of the United States' climate pollution. Sanders' announcement steels the campaign against accusations of hypocrisy, often made by Republicans who take an ideological stance against the scientific realities of climate change. The Sanders campaign is buying carbon offsets from Vermont-based NativeEnergy, the same company Clinton used three years ago. Once dubbed the "celebrities' choice in offset providers," NativeEnergy provides third-party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation ― a sort of LEED certification of for-profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society. Though founded and run by a former utility lawyer, the company, as its name suggests, transferred a majority stake in its ownership to a consortium of Native American tribes in 2005. Carbon emissions from campaign travel first became an issue during the 2004 election, when the NRDC Action Fund, an affiliate of the Natural Resources Defense Council, began raising concerns about the huge amount of fuel candidates burned crisscrossing the country. In 2007, former Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack became the first presidential contender to go carbon neutral. John Edwards followed soon after. By 2008, both Democrat Barack Obama and Republican John McCain "rushed to put themselves on a carbon diet," according to MSNBC. During the 2016 Democratic primary, Sanders clashed with Clinton over climate change, attacking her support for increased gas drilling in a heated debate. After Clinton clinched the nomination, the issue disappeared, without a single question asked during three debates between Clinton and her Republican opponent, Donald Trump. We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources. Nearly every major declared contender for the Democratic nomination has expressed support for the Green New Deal, a movement calling for a sweeping national industrial policy that zeroes out greenhouse gases over a decade, guarantees clean-energy jobs to millions and puts the country on course to generate as close to 100 percent of its electricity from renewables as possible in a decade. In a first, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee is centering his entire campaign on climate change, vowing to make it his priority if nominated. He joined Sanders, Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii) in signing the No Fossil Fuel Money pledge, an oath promising to reject donations from the oil, gas and coal companies and their executives. The newfound attention on climate change comes after the United Nations' stark warning in October that world governments have roughly a decade to halve global emissions or face an average temperature increase of at least 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit ― about half-a-degree Celisus more than what the world experiences today. Warming beyond that level is forecast to cause catastrophic flooding, droughts and extreme weather, with economic damages topping $54 trillion.	True
569	rt	questionable_source	2018-10-18	Some might argue the concept of a "long term," when it comes to the environment, was rendered irrelevant by the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report.	While some Democrats favor bold moves to address climate change, others – perhaps still shell-shocked by the failure of their 2009 cap-and-trade bill under Obama – shy away from anything more than incremental measures, citing the "hostile" political environment in Congress.	It projected that humans have until 2030 to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we want to avoid catastrophic climate change in the form of massive sea level rise, increased drought, permafrost melt, and coral reef die-offs.	'It'll change back?'	Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA) said Democrats should "focus on the practical and the opportunistic" in the short term while working toward big-picture "aspirational goals" in the long term.		'It'll change back?' Trump mocked for his 'natural instinct for science' on climate change While a sobering new UN report on climate change indicates humans might have little time to change our ways to avoid environmental catastrophe, President Trump isn't worried, pointing to scientists "on both sides of the picture." Referencing an uncle who was a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (whom he never spoke to about climate change) as apparent proof of his scientific bona fides, Trump told the Associated Press that he has "a natural instinct for science" and that the climate goes "back and forth, back and forth." The US president remains unconvinced that human activity is the cause of climate change. While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was "created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive," he is now convinced that "something's changing and it'll change back again," according to an interview he gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday. Trump's appointee to the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, notoriously attempted to roll back several key environmental regulations passed under Barack Obama, including the Clean Power Plan, the Clean Water Rule, and a proposed ban on the pesticide chlorpyrifos. Pruitt also oversaw a 23 percent budget cut to the agency and filled science advisory panels with industry representatives instead of unaffiliated scientists. Trump may believe in climate change now, but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have "a very big political agenda." Meanwhile, he doesn't want to "sacrifice the economic well-being of our country for something that nobody really knows." While some Democrats favor bold moves to address climate change, others – perhaps still shell-shocked by the failure of their 2009 cap-and-trade bill under Obama – shy away from anything more than incremental measures, citing the "hostile" political environment in Congress. Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA) said Democrats should "focus on the practical and the opportunistic" in the short term while working toward big-picture "aspirational goals" in the long term. Some might argue the concept of a "long term," when it comes to the environment, was rendered irrelevant by the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report. It projected that humans have until 2030 to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we want to avoid catastrophic climate change in the form of massive sea level rise, increased drought, permafrost melt, and coral reef die-offs. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
230	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-12-06	There appears to be little respite.	Some firefighters have expressed concern that volunteer numbers might not be enough and that there are inadequate water supplies.	New South Wales Rural Fire Service (RFS) deputy commissioner, Rob Rogers told ABC: "We cannot stop these fires, they will just keep burning until conditions ease, and then we'll try to do what we can to contain them."	PM Scott Morrison has dismissed accusations linking the crisis to his government's policies.• What could be wiped out by temperature riseHundreds of bushfire survivors and farmers converged on the nation's capital, Canberra, this week in protest.	The BOM says that climate change has led to an increase in extreme heat events and raised the severity of other natural disasters, such as drought.	The season has hit earlier than normal and has been exacerbated by drought conditions. <sep> The north Sydney blazes were sending black fumes across the city, causing a rise in medical problems. <sep> The Bureau of Meteorology (BOM) also said that "some fires were too big to put out". <sep> At one point on Friday, nine fires had been raised to emergency level warnings, although these had decreased markedly amid a brief respite in conditions later in the day. <sep> Mr Fitzsimmons said: "There is an absolute lack of moisture in the soil, a lack of moisture in the vegetation... you are seeing fires started very easily and they are spreading extremely quickly, and they are burning ridiculously intensely." <sep> 	Australia bushfires north of Sydney 'too big to put out' A "mega blaze" raging across a 60km (37 mile) front north of the Australian city of Sydney cannot currently be put out, fire officials have warned. The blaze across 300,000 hectares (1,150 sq m) is just an hour's drive from the nation's most-populous city. People who cannot defend their property from approaching fires have been told they should leave immediately. Since October, bushfires have killed six people and destroyed more than 700 homes across Australia. The severity of the blazes so early in the fire season has caused alarm, and prompted calls for greater action to tackle climate change.• How are animals faring in the fires?Fires have also raged across Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. What's the latest on the ground?Several fires have combined to form the mega blaze north of Sydney, although more than a dozen locations are affected across New South Wales. At one point on Friday, nine fires had been raised to emergency level warnings, although these had decreased markedly amid a brief respite in conditions later in the day. The north Sydney blazes were sending black fumes across the city, causing a rise in medical problems. New South Wales Rural Fire Service (RFS) deputy commissioner, Rob Rogers told ABC: "We cannot stop these fires, they will just keep burning until conditions ease, and then we'll try to do what we can to contain them." He said the 60km stretch from Hawkesbury to Singleton was "just fire that whole way". The RFS website listed five fires roughly in a line from Nullo Mountain to Wollombi as out of control at 05:00 local time on Saturday (18:00 GMT Friday), with another out of control at Green Wattle Creek, south-west of Sydney. Video footage from the Orangeville area showed firefighters running from a wall of fire and the Walkabout Wildlife Park has evacuated hundreds of animals. The Bureau of Meteorology (BOM) also said that "some fires were too big to put out". Fire officials in Ingleburn warned: "If your property is not prepared for the bushfire season and you're not sure you are able or capable of defending your property if a fire approaches you need to leave straight away." Firefighters from Canada were briefed in Sydney on Friday and will be deployed across New South Wales over the weekend, to be joined by teams from the US. There appears to be little respite. RFS founder and former commissioner, Phil Koperberg, told the Sydney Morning Herald: "People are nervous and they have a right to be... the worst is yet to come". Tuesday is the next big concern, with temperatures inland of Sydney likely to reach 40C plus. Some firefighters have expressed concern that volunteer numbers might not be enough and that there are inadequate water supplies. One said the fires were "all ticking time-bombs - without rain those fires won't be put out". Sydney may be blanketed in smoke for weeks, if not months, RFS Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons said. Is this fire season particularly bad?It hasn't come close to the fatalities of 2009, when nearly 200 people died, but the scale of the damage has been huge.• How bad is bushfire smoke for health?More than 1.6 million hectares of land have burned in New South Wales alone. The season has hit earlier than normal and has been exacerbated by drought conditions. Mr Fitzsimmons said: "There is an absolute lack of moisture in the soil, a lack of moisture in the vegetation... you are seeing fires started very easily and they are spreading extremely quickly, and they are burning ridiculously intensely." The BOM says that climate change has led to an increase in extreme heat events and raised the severity of other natural disasters, such as drought. Last week, the bureau noted that NSW had endured its driest spring season on record. It also warned that Australia's coming summer was predicted to bring similar conditions to last year's - the nation's hottest summer on record.• Australia may see 50C days 'in decades'The government has been criticised over its efforts to address climate change. PM Scott Morrison has dismissed accusations linking the crisis to his government's policies.• What could be wiped out by temperature riseHundreds of bushfire survivors and farmers converged on the nation's capital, Canberra, this week in protest. One woman displayed the charred remains of her home outside Parliament - on which she had written: "Morrison, your climate crisis destroyed my home."	False
500	npr	left_center_bias	2018-10-25	Both trends increase the chances that from time to time, farmers will face catastrophic shortages of water.	Some places may find it harder to grow anything at all, because there's not enough water.	But they may have to move to higher and cooler latitudes, or farther up a mountainside.	Globally, though, wheat may not be in short supply in a warmer world.	Coffee could move to cooler parts of the country, but researchers don't think those new growing areas will make up for what's lost.	Wheat, source of bread and a foundation of life in much of the world, will suffer from hotter temperatures — and the country where the impact may be greatest also is among least well-equipped to cope with a shortfall. <sep> They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes, most of them bad for growing corn. <sep> Climate models, though, see a different future. <sep> India is likely to see a large drop in wheat production due to heat stress — about 8 percent if average global temperatures rise by 1 degree Celsius, according to one recent study. <sep> So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land? <sep> Rain will come less often, and when it comes, the storms will be more intense — neither of which is helpful for a crop that demands frequent rains, but doesn't do a good job of preventing soil erosion. <sep> It will take significant cuts in greenhouse gas emissions within 15 years, plus efforts to recapture some of the carbon that's already been emitted, perhaps by planting new forests. <sep> 	5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate Change 5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate ChangeClimate change is coming like a freight train, or a rising tide. And our food, so dependent on rain and suitable temperatures, sits right in its path. The plants that nourish us won't disappear entirely. But they may have to move to higher and cooler latitudes, or farther up a mountainside. Some places may find it harder to grow anything at all, because there's not enough water. Here are five foods, and food-growing places, that will see the impact. Wheat, source of bread and a foundation of life in much of the world, will suffer from hotter temperatures — and the country where the impact may be greatest also is among least well-equipped to cope with a shortfall. India is likely to see a large drop in wheat production due to heat stress — about 8 percent if average global temperatures rise by 1 degree Celsius, according to one recent study. Temperatures are expected to rise more than that; according to a recent report from the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, limiting climate change to 1.5 degrees Celsius will require heroic and dramatic action. It will take significant cuts in greenhouse gas emissions within 15 years, plus efforts to recapture some of the carbon that's already been emitted, perhaps by planting new forests. Globally, though, wheat may not be in short supply in a warmer world. Russia, which is already a major wheat exporter, may be able to expand the amount of land devoted to this crop. Despite Georgia's claim to be the Peach State, California is the country's biggest peach producer. Farmers there grow about half of the country's fresh peaches, and almost all of the fruit that's canned and processed in other ways. Many fruit trees, including peaches, have a peculiar requirement. If they don't experience enough chill during wintertime, they get confused and don't bloom properly. No bloom, no harvest. The peach trees currently grown in California's Central Valley require about 700 "chilling hours" during the winter. But scientists are predicting that by the end of the century, only 10 percent of the valley will reliably see that much chilling. And even if plant breeders create peach varieties that need less chilling, there's another problem: Peach trees also yield less fruit when it gets too hot in summertime. Coffee can't take freezing temperatures, but it doesn't like extreme heat, either — at least the highly prized Arabica type doesn't. So it's mainly grown on relatively cool mountainsides in the tropics. Brazil is the biggest coffee producer in the world, by far, but as the globe warms up, most of its main coffee-growing regions probably won't be suitable for growing this crop anymore, due to heat as well as more frequent rainstorms. Coffee could move to cooler parts of the country, but researchers don't think those new growing areas will make up for what's lost. Meanwhile, rising temperatures could threaten native coffee trees that grow wild in the forests of Ethiopia and central Africa. The wild trees represent an irreplaceable storehouse of coffee's original genetic diversity. The world's commercial coffee trees are genetically very similar to each other, and those genetically diverse wild trees could be the source of genetic traits that plant breeders may need in order to create commercial trees that can thrive in tomorrow's climate. Some of the wild trees, however, are preserved in "gene banks" in Ethiopia and Latin America. Nothing says Iowa quite like fields of corn. Climate models, though, see a different future. They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes, most of them bad for growing corn. Rain will come less often, and when it comes, the storms will be more intense — neither of which is helpful for a crop that demands frequent rains, but doesn't do a good job of preventing soil erosion. In addition, corn suffers when it gets too hot — especially when it's too hot at night. Add it all up, and one study estimates that corn yields in Iowa will fall substantially, anywhere from 15 percent to an astounding 50 percent. "By 2100, the Corn Belt is going to be in Canada, not in the United States," says Jason Clay, senior vice president for food and markets at the World Wildlife Fund. So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land? According to one study, by the end of the century this part of the Midwest will be more suited for growing cotton, soybeans, grass and forests. California, the biggest single source of America's fresh vegetables and nuts, and the primary source of almonds for the entire world, is a dramatic illustration of how subtle shifts in climate can have huge effects. California's farms rely heavily on snow that piles up in the Sierra Nevada mountains during the winter, and then slowly melts during the summer, delivering a vital flow of water to the state's irrigation canals. As the climate warms, though, winter precipitation will arrive more often as rain, and the snow that does fall will melt much more quickly, leaving farmers scrambling for water to keep crops alive in late summer. Also, there will be more variation from year to year; wet years will be wetter, and dry years will be even dryer. Both trends increase the chances that from time to time, farmers will face catastrophic shortages of water. And that's especially bad for tree crops, of which almonds are the biggest, because losing an orchard is much more devastating than losing a single crop of, say, tomatoes. California's farmers may be forced to reduce the amount of land devoted to orchards, since there there's a chance that they will not survive a major drought.	True
618	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-10-24	Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler.	That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change, like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	Florida Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, one of a handful of Republicans to publicly declare a belief in climate change, said she has a strategy for getting fellow Republicans to think of solutions: "I've found that the best way ... is to not dwell on the causes," she said in an email.	Often, they say, people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to.	At a dinner attended by island residents Aug. 2, the activists from RepublicEn headed by former Republican Congressman Bob Inglis laid out the stakes: The sea level is rising, and some scientists estimate that within decades the island, already suffering severe erosion, will need to be abandoned.	A sea wall built on one side of the island in the late 1980s has prevented the land behind it from eroding, they say, so another sea wall is the answer." <sep> Journalists and politicians now view the island as a symbol of the climate crisis. <sep> Conservative climate activists like Rob Sisson of ConservAmerica and Mitch Hescox of the Evangelical Environmental Network said the rejection of climate change by Tangier residents is not surprising: their groups often have trouble convincing fellow Republicans global warming is a real issue. <sep> Residents of shrinking island reject 'climate victim' label... TANGIER ISLAND, Va. (Reuters) - This summer, a delegation of Republican climate activists visited Tangier Island, a speck of grassland in Virginia's Chesapeake Bay, to try to convince its 450 residents to take climate change seriously. <sep> 	Residents of shrinking island reject 'climate victim' label... TANGIER ISLAND, Va. (Reuters) - This summer, a delegation of Republican climate activists visited Tangier Island, a speck of grassland in Virginia's Chesapeake Bay, to try to convince its 450 residents to take climate change seriously. At a dinner attended by island residents Aug. 2, the activists from RepublicEn headed by former Republican Congressman Bob Inglis laid out the stakes: The sea level is rising, and some scientists estimate that within decades the island, already suffering severe erosion, will need to be abandoned. The people of Tangier Island were used to this kind of message. Former Vice President Al Gore, a prominent Democratic climate activist, had given the same speech to islanders three days earlier. They were also used to rejecting it." We'll talk to everybody," said James Eskridge, mayor of the mainly Republican island community. "But they're not going to change many minds here." Residents, he said, do not believe in climate change: they want a new sea wall to prevent erosion, not a lecture about saving the world with solar panels. Tangier Island's steadfast rejection of climate change reflects the rigidity of American opinions about global warming, often defined along political party lines. Reuters/Ipsos polling shows more than a third of Americans, mainly Republicans, reject the scientific consensus that climate change is driven by human activity. Less than a third of Americans believe global warming poses an imminent threat to the United States. These views barely budged after a series of devastating hurricanes this summer. That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change, like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels. And while conservatives have long been skeptical about climate change, doubters have a powerful new ally: U.S. President Donald Trump. He has called climate change a hoax and has started withdrawing the United States from a global pact to combat it, citing what he calls the huge economic cost. Eskridge told Reuters Trump called him in June after seeing a report about severe erosion problems on the island, telling him not to worry about sea level rise."I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about - that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about," Eskridge said.'WE'RE LOOKING TO STAY'An Army Corps of Engineers study in 2015 showed Tangier has lost two thirds of its mass since 1850 because of erosion, a process scientists say is being exacerbated by climate change. Journalists and politicians now view the island as a symbol of the climate crisis. Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler. A sea wall built on one side of the island in the late 1980s has prevented the land behind it from eroding, they say, so another sea wall is the answer." We're not looking to have our light bills cheaper, we're looking to stay here," said Deborah Pruitt, 57, who works at the island's museum, where printouts of news reports about the island are displayed on a wall. Conservative climate activists like Rob Sisson of ConservAmerica and Mitch Hescox of the Evangelical Environmental Network said the rejection of climate change by Tangier residents is not surprising: their groups often have trouble convincing fellow Republicans global warming is a real issue. Often, they say, people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to. Florida Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, one of a handful of Republicans to publicly declare a belief in climate change, said she has a strategy for getting fellow Republicans to think of solutions: "I've found that the best way ... is to not dwell on the causes," she said in an email.	True
823	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-05	This fudge isn't perfect – and it still doesn't solve the problem of the EPA's Obama-era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless, life-enhancing trace gas as an existential threat.	But it also lays the groundwork for new, presumably weaker, regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement.	But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups.	But at least it's a step in the right direction: the green blob just lost another of its tentacles.	Had it been implemented the CPP would have required U.S. power plants to lower their carbon emissions by 2030 to 32 percent below 2005 levels.	So while it's good news that the CPP will probably never be implemented, the bad news is how difficult it is even for a determinedly skeptical president like Trump to unravel environmental regulation. <sep> 	Delingpole: Trump to Repeal and Replace Obama's 'Stupid' and 'Job Killing' Clean Power Plan The Trump administration will repeal the Clean Power Plan, the centerpiece of President Barack Obama's effort to fight climate change, and will ask the public to recommend ways it could be replaced, according to an internal Environmental Protection Agency document.  The draft proposal represents the administration's first substantive step toward rolling back the plan, which was designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions from the power sector, after months of presidential tweets and condemnations of Mr. Obama's efforts to reduce climate-warming pollution. But it also lays the groundwork for new, presumably weaker, regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement. In 2016, when it launched the plan at Obama's behest, the EPA declared that the Clean Power Plan was a vital, cost-effective way of combating climate change which would ultimately benefit the U.S. consumer. However, an independent study by the Manhattan Institute showed this to be nonsense. The EPA's cost benefit analysis was fallacious; it had drastically underestimated the costs – which it claimed would be $9 billion a year, but which the Manhattan Institute showed would be closer to $40 billion; and it would make no measurable difference to climate change. Hence Trump's election trail promise and executive order in March this year requesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP. This was part of a wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UN's Paris climate accord. Had it been implemented the CPP would have required U.S. power plants to lower their carbon emissions by 2030 to 32 percent below 2005 levels. Since carbon dioxide is a natural by product of almost every industrial process, the knock on damage to the U.S economy in the form of lost jobs and higher energy prices would have been huge. Note, though, that the CPP is not being scrapped altogether but rather being delayed indefinitely through judicial fudge. Janet McCabe, who headed the EPA's Office of Air and Radiation under Obama, said an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking could take years – meaning the replacement for CPP could be a long way off. "It certainly will draw the process out," she said. Some conservative groups have urged the EPA to scrap the CPP without replacing it, effectively ending U.S. regulation of carbon emissions. But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups. So while it's good news that the CPP will probably never be implemented, the bad news is how difficult it is even for a determinedly skeptical president like Trump to unravel environmental regulation. Even within his own cabinet, there are numerous siren voices – Javanka; Secretary of State Tillerson; Economics advisor Gary Cohn – urging Trump to maintain his predecessor's disastrous green policies. This fudge isn't perfect – and it still doesn't solve the problem of the EPA's Obama-era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless, life-enhancing trace gas as an existential threat. But at least it's a step in the right direction: the green blob just lost another of its tentacles.	True
358	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-09-11	Experts have also suggested reforestation, ocean fertilization and what's known as enhanced weathering.	Of course, BECCS is another magical solution that's baked into the IPCC's models of what needs to be done to limit future global warming to 2 degrees Celsius.	alifornia is committed to doing whatever is necessary to meet the existential threat of climate change," Brown said Monday.	However, that's not enough to meet the goals of the Paris climate accord, according to United Nations models.	If nothing else, full implementation of BECCS 'at scale' would require the use of a global land area one and a half times the size of India," Pielke wrote about the staggering environmental cost of "negative emissions" technology.	et BECCS plays a very real role in today's climate policy arena," Pielke wrote, "by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and '90s." <sep> University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke, Jr. recently published a paper on the problems with the UN's use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord." <sep> Indeed, the European Academies Science Advisory Council concluded in early 2018 that negative emissions technologies "offer only limited realistic potential to remove carbon from the atmosphere and not at the scale envisaged in some climate scenarios." <sep> Brown's office said negative emissions would be achieved through "increased carbon sequestration in forests, soils and other natural landscapes," according to its press release. <sep> What Brown ordered is not just reducing emissions, but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up — and not just for electricity. <sep> 	Jerry Brown's Plan For 'Negative' CO2 Emissions Is Based On 'Science Fiction' California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown issued an executive order Monday mandating "carbon neutrality" by 2045, then ordering the state to "maintain net negative emissions thereafter." Brown's executive order came the same day he signed into law a bill mandating California get 100 percent of its electricity from renewables and "zero-carbon" energy sources. Brown is also preparing to host a global warming activist summit Wednesday." alifornia is committed to doing whatever is necessary to meet the existential threat of climate change," Brown said Monday. "But have no illusions, California and the rest of the world have miles to go before we achieve zero-carbon emissions." Brown is right in one sense. California does have "miles to go" to meet Brown's executive order because it relies on "magical thinking" and "science fiction," according to experts. Existing executive orders call for California to cut greenhouse gas emissions 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050, and state law requires emissions to be cut 40 percent by 2030. However, that's not enough to meet the goals of the Paris climate accord, according to United Nations models. What Brown ordered is not just reducing emissions, but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up — and not just for electricity. Brown's order applies to the entire economy, including transportation and agriculture. So what does negative emissions mean in practice? Well, no one really knows, but experts have put forward ideas to suck carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Brown's office said negative emissions would be achieved through "increased carbon sequestration in forests, soils and other natural landscapes," according to its press release. But how would this even work? (RELATED: A New Report Details How Nonprofits Are Funneling Millions To Democratic Governors To Further Their Global Warming Agenda)Scientists have also proposed technologies to literally suck carbon dioxide from the air and store it underground or in the ocean. Experts have also suggested reforestation, ocean fertilization and what's known as enhanced weathering. Enhanced weathering is the rather hilarious idea that one can use rocks to, in effect, store CO2 emissions. In theory, the rocks would react with CO2 and water to form an alkaline solution that leaks into the ocean. However, all of these proposals remains "magical thinking" at this point, according to an editorial in the journal Nature. Enhanced weathering, for example, would require "an area about the size of Texas … of US agricultural land every year" just to "soak up 13% of the annual global emissions from agriculture," according to Nature. Another proposed technology that's cited by the IPCC is bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS). This is basically removing CO2 through growing plants, which are then burned for energy. The emissions are then captured and stored underground. Of course, BECCS is another magical solution that's baked into the IPCC's models of what needs to be done to limit future global warming to 2 degrees Celsius. University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke, Jr. recently published a paper on the problems with the UN's use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord." arbon dioxide removal at massive scale is science fiction — like a light saber, incredible but not real," Pielke wrote." et BECCS plays a very real role in today's climate policy arena," Pielke wrote, "by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and '90s." If nothing else, full implementation of BECCS 'at scale' would require the use of a global land area one and a half times the size of India," Pielke wrote about the staggering environmental cost of "negative emissions" technology. Indeed, the European Academies Science Advisory Council concluded in early 2018 that negative emissions technologies "offer only limited realistic potential to remove carbon from the atmosphere and not at the scale envisaged in some climate scenarios."	False
863	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-09-27	"We're looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward."	Brown, one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change, would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. "I've gotten messages from the governor asking, 'Why haven't we done something already?'"	Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally, due to the massive size of California's car market.	"The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California."	But it's unlikely the Trump administration would approve such a plan, forcing California to take a different legal route.		Jerry Brown Wants to Impose 'China-Style' Ban on Combustion Engine Cars Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal-combustion engines, Mary Nichols, chairman of the California Air Resources Board, said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away, she said. Brown, one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change, would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. "I've gotten messages from the governor asking, 'Why haven't we done something already?'" Nichols said, referring to China's planned phase-out of fossil-fuel vehicle sales. "The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California." "To reach the ambitious levels of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, we have to pretty much replace all combustion with some form of renewable energy by 2040 or 2050," Nichols said. "We're looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward." Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally, due to the massive size of California's car market. Over 2 million new passenger vehicles were sold and registered in the nation's most populous state last year — more than than the entire nations of Spain, France and Italy. California has had the right to write its own pollution rules since the 1970's under waivers granted by the EPA. But it's unlikely the Trump administration would approve such a plan, forcing California to take a different legal route. According to Motor Trend magazine, Nichols says California is considering regulating the types of cars that can be registered in the state or have access to highways. "We certainly wouldn't expect to get a waiver for that from the EPA," she told Bloomberg. "I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result." China plans to end sales of combustion engine vehicles in 2030. Other countries like France and the U.K. plan to follow suit a decade later. California has not yet specified a date to copy China's policy. Tim Donnelly is a former California State Assemblyman and Author, currently on a book tour for his new book: Patriot Not Politician: Win or Go Homeless.  He also ran for governor in 2014.	True
828	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-06-01	The problem is the age-old tragedy of the commons.	This can be offset by a reduction in other taxes, like sales tax, which is quite regressive.	Start low and increase it until the desired outcome is achieved.	The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity, which currently has a price of zero.	This results in an error in market signals and far more CO2 is generated than should be.		Climate Billionaire Elon Musk Quits Donald Trump's Advisory Council The shift in government policy likely will force Musk and his investors to revamp his sprawling business empire, which relies on government subsidies and on preferences for solar-energy over natural fuels. For example, the Los Angeles Times reported in 2015 that Musk's battery factory in Reno, Nevada is reported to have enjoyed roughly $1.3 billion in state subsidies, and his SolarCity company has gotten $1.5 billion from federal solar-regulations. In California, the state legislature allowed his Tesla Motors to sell more than $500 million worth of government-granted carbon energy credits, said the Los Angeles Times, and the state's anti-pollution agency allows the owners of battery-operated cars to use low-traffic "high occupancy" lanes in gridlocked Los Angeles. Musk's solar-energy company in New York state has reportedly gained $1 billion in near-term and short-term investment from Democratic politicians said the newspaper. However, those financial gains for Musk depend on higher energy taxes for the nation's established manufacturing sectors, especially in Midwest states. Breitbart described the economic impact of the climate agreement:Unsurprisingly, Musk is a strong advocate for growing "carbon taxes" on natural fuels. In a January 2017 interview with Gizmodo, Musk declared:CO2 [carbon diooxide] isn't exactly pollution, but it does cause warming and slight acidification of water if very large quantities are dug from deep underground and added to the surface cycle. The problem is the age-old tragedy of the commons. The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity, which currently has a price of zero. This results in an error in market signals and far more CO2 is generated than should be. We won't ever go to zero CO2, but the rate over time should be dropped far below what it is today. Start low and increase it until the desired outcome is achieved. This can be offset by a reduction in other taxes, like sales tax, which is quite regressive. This is analogous to taxing cigarettes and alcohol more than fruits and vegetables, which everybody agrees makes sense. We should have higher taxes on the things that science says are probably bad for us than those that are probably good for us. New York investors, including Goldman Sachs, have made big bets on the preservation of the Paris deal, according to The Huffington Post.	False
123	motherjones	left_bias	2019-07-31	rankly, I don't think we see an indicator that candidates aren't willing to talk about solutions," Greenpeace's US climate campaigns director Janet Redman told me after the last debate in June.	"The climate crisis is the existential crisis for our world," she said.	The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists.	Steve Bullock expressed doubt that such an ambitious program could make it through Congress.	The Democrats Finally Debated the Green New Deal The Democratic candidates sounded the alarm on climate change in the first presidential debates, but the discussion in June was so limited that they never really got into the details of how they'd solve the crisis.		The Democrats Finally Debated the Green New Deal The Democratic candidates sounded the alarm on climate change in the first presidential debates, but the discussion in June was so limited that they never really got into the details of how they'd solve the crisis. It was a different story this time around. It took more than an hour to get there Tuesday night, but during the 12 minutes of discussion of global warming policy, two of the frontrunners—Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders—became the first candidates to substantively embrace versions of a Green New Deal in the debates. The concept of a Green New Deal—pushed by lawmakers like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.)—has become a favorite idea for progressives. It outlines a vision for economic, infrastructure, and clean energy investment while aggressively ramping down to net-zero emissions as soon as possible. Elizabeth Warren didn't actually use the words "Green Neal Deal" or tout AOC's specific resolution Tuesday night, but she did capture its ethos by touting her plan for investing $2 trillion over 10 years in green manufacturing. "The climate crisis is the existential crisis for our world," she said. "I have a plan for a green industrial policy that takes advantage of the fact that we do what we do best, and that is innovate and create." She promised that her plan would produce roughly 1.2 million manufacturing jobs. "This could revitalize huge cities across this country," she added. Bernie Sanders also embraced the Green New Deal on stage, albeit briefly. "The Green New Deal is a bold idea," he said. "We can create millions of good paying jobs. We can rebuild communities in rural America that have been devastated." As he often does, Sanders pledged to fight back against the fossil fuel industry, noting that it continues to receive tax breaks and subsidies adding up to hundreds of billions of dollars globally. "I get a little bit tired of Democrats afraid of big ideas. Republicans are not afraid of big ideas," he said.  "Please don't tell me that we cannot take on the fossil fuel industry." Other candidates on stage were far more critical of Green New Deal policies. Former Maryland Rep. John Delaney pointed to his plan for a carbon price and investing in technology to capture carbon from the air. But, he argued, a Green New Deal would tie progress on climate to "other things that are completely unrelated to climate like universal health care and guaranteed jobs." Former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper—who has advocated working collaboratively with the oil and gas industry to address climate change—called Green New Deal proposals "a disaster at the ballot box." You might as well FedEx the election to Donald Trump," Hickenlooper said. Montana Gov. Steve Bullock expressed doubt that such an ambitious program could make it through Congress. "Let's not just talk about plans that are written for press releases that will go nowhere else if we can't even get a Republican to acknowledge that the climate is changing," he said. Nearly every Democratic presidential candidate has now released a climate change plan, or at least part of a plan. Climate change has consistently ranked as one of the top concerns among Democratic primary voters—and polls suggest that Trump's climate denial is deeply unpopular. The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists. They have pressed for an official DNC climate change debate because, they argue, it's needed to finally allot candidates the time to debate their plans in depth—and to highlight the fact that President Donald Trump has no answers himself." rankly, I don't think we see an indicator that candidates aren't willing to talk about solutions," Greenpeace's US climate campaigns director Janet Redman told me after the last debate in June. "But I think they need more time to state the case."	True
501	yahoonews	left_center_bias	2018-03-13	Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world, and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community," she said.	He also suggested that a carbon tax may be the best way to limit the greenhouse-gas emissions driving global warming.	This shuffling of the deck chairs will ensure that Washington continues to bring up the rear when it comes to international action to combat dangerous climate change."	Naomi Ages, the climate director of Greenpeace USA, was similarly perturbed."	Rep. Barbara Lee, D-Calif., also took issue with Pompeo's past statements on climate change.		For climate hawks, firing Tillerson is a case of &apos;be careful what you wish for&apos; Secretary of State Rex Tillerson arrives at a meeting of the National Space Council in Chantilly, Va., on Oct. 5, 2017. (Photo: Andrew Harnik/AP)President Trump's dismissal of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson Tuesday morning fulfilled a long-held wish for climate advocates, but they fear his replacement, CIA Director Mike Pompeo, will be even worse. Tillerson joined Exxon in 1975 and rose through the ranks over the decades. He was CEO and chairman of ExxonMobil from 2006 until he joined the Trump administration in 2017. That Trump would nominate a lifelong oilman to succeed John Kerry, who led the U.S. through the Paris climate negotiations of late 2015, as the nation's top diplomat resulted in predictable and fierce pushback. During his confirmation hearing in January 2017, however, Tillerson told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he thought the United States should stay in the Paris Agreement, which strives to reduce global warming to 2°C (3.6°F). He also suggested that a carbon tax may be the best way to limit the greenhouse-gas emissions driving global warming. Pompeo, on the other hand, identified with the tea party and represented Kansas's Fourth Congressional District from 2011 to 2017. He received more financial backing from Koch Industries, an energy and natural resources conglomerate, than any other candidate in the 2010 elections: $80,000. In fact, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a bipartisan research group that tracks the effect of lobbying on elections and policy, Pompeo has received more money from Koch interests than any other House member. In just four election cycles (2010, 2012, 2014, 2016), he received the following: $335,000 from Koch Industries employees, which includes $92,000 from the Koch family; $69,000 from the Koch Industries PAC; $417,175 from Americans for Prosperity, an advocacy group funded by the Kochs; and $87,532 from other organizations with substantial funding by the Koch brothers. And Pompeo turned to the Koch brothers, who actively oppose climate change legislation, for money long before running for office. In the late '90s, Koch Industries invested in an aerospace company Pompeo founded with fellow West Point alumni. He sold his interest in Thayer Aerospace in 2006 and became president of Sentry International, which produces and sells oil field equipment. In short, even though environmentalists adamantly opposed Tillerson, they do not expect anything positive for the climate from Pompeo. Jake Schmidt, the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, released the following statement: "Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first-class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse. This shuffling of the deck chairs will ensure that Washington continues to bring up the rear when it comes to international action to combat dangerous climate change." Tiernan Sittenfeld, senior vice president of government affairs for the League of Conservation Voters, said in a statement that Pompeo's nomination is profoundly disturbing but not unexpected." hough not surprising, this is extremely troubling. Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world, and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community," she said. "With a history of questioning the science of climate change, a close relationship with the polluter Koch brothers and lifetime LCV score of 4%, Mike Pompeo has no business becoming the next secretary of state." Naomi Ages, the climate director of Greenpeace USA, was similarly perturbed." onald Trump has now somehow picked someone even worse than Rex Tillerson to run the State Department. Greenpeace has been opposed to Tillerson as secretary of state from the moment he was nominated, and we continue to believe that the U.S. government cannot and should not be run by fossil-fuel industry flunkies," Ages said in a statement. "Mike Pompeo, though, is uniquely unqualified to be secretary of state in an entirely different way than Rex Tillerson was. In addition to being a climate denier, like his predecessor, Pompeo is Koch brothers' shill who will denigrate the United States' reputation abroad and make us vulnerable to threats at home." Rep. Barbara Lee, D-Calif., also took issue with Pompeo's past statements on climate change.	False
533	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-02-09	But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	Work is afoot to change this but its not guaranteed that the improvements will ensure that the grid can cope with the predicted generation.	This also means the state is unable to import cheap power from other states during the remaining seven months when wind power is not feasible.	Between climate change and reckless exploitation and pollution of rivers, streams and lakes, Tamil Nadu is staring at a bleak water future.	The overall direction, if not the magnitude and rate of change, laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally.A healthy and environmentally sustainable future requires more than just switching from dirty coal to wind or solar power.	But first the state must overcome its addiction to coal, writes Nityanand Jayaraman. <sep> So, they will have to slow down generation from other sources. <sep> But the biggest limiting factor for the state is likely to be water. <sep> Utility-scale solar farms - massive projects that supply power to the gird - such as the one in Ramanathapuram need to be re-evaluated, especially if they are to run in areas where water is scarce. <sep> It could prove to be an example of how emerging economies can grow while slashing their carbon emissions. <sep> But that is where reality tempers the possibilities. <sep> Even during those months, production cannot reach its peak because the state does not have a large enough grid to convey excess electricity to other states. <sep> Pursuing these ventures will weaken the state utility's finances and its ability to invest in smarter, cleaner alternatives. <sep> There are other challenges too. <sep> The report argues that not only does Tamil Nadu not need coal or nuclear power, but that these projects are financially fraught. <sep> But in order to harvest that potential, Tamil Nadu needs to transform its power sector. <sep> If that happens, clean, renewable energy would account for 67% of Tamil Nadu's capacity, which could revive the state's debt-ridden utility. <sep> In June 2017, villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant - they alleged that more than 200,000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250,000 solar modules daily. <sep> At least 60% of groundwater resources in the state are assessed as over-exploited, critical or semi-critical, according to India's Central Ground Water Board. <sep> 	Viewpoint: The Indian state to become a global leader in clean energy India's southern state of Tamil Nadu is poised to become a global leader in wind power, according to a new report. But first the state must overcome its addiction to coal, writes Nityanand Jayaraman. The report - by the US-based Institute of Energy Economics and Financial Analysis - predicts that by 2027, more than half of Tamil Nadu's power will be generated by "zero emissions" technologies - notably solar and wind. The state's current capacity to generate wind power - 7.85 gigawatts (GW) - is already impressive considering it is higher than that of Denmark or Sweden. But the report estimates that it could double over the next decade, and that solar installations too could increase six-fold to reach 13.5GW. If that happens, clean, renewable energy would account for 67% of Tamil Nadu's capacity, which could revive the state's debt-ridden utility. But in order to harvest that potential, Tamil Nadu needs to transform its power sector. Tamil Nadu's population is three times that of Australia and its per capita GDP is on a par with Sri Lanka and Ukraine. It could prove to be an example of how emerging economies can grow while slashing their carbon emissions. Assuming Tamil Nadu's GDP will grow at an annual rate of 7%, the report suggests that much of this growth can be driven by renewables. Installation and operating costs for wind and solar power have dropped low enough to compete with established but dirty sources of power such as coal. But that is where reality tempers the possibilities. The report argues that not only does Tamil Nadu not need coal or nuclear power, but that these projects are financially fraught. Electricity from new coal power plants is likely to be twice as expensive as solar or wind power. But, despite the bleak financial prospects, Tamil Nadu currently has 22.5GW of coal power plants in the pipeline. Pursuing these ventures will weaken the state utility's finances and its ability to invest in smarter, cleaner alternatives. There are other challenges too. Wind power can be generated only from May to October. Even during those months, production cannot reach its peak because the state does not have a large enough grid to convey excess electricity to other states. So, they will have to slow down generation from other sources. This also means the state is unable to import cheap power from other states during the remaining seven months when wind power is not feasible. Work is afoot to change this but its not guaranteed that the improvements will ensure that the grid can cope with the predicted generation. Integrating power from seasonal sources like wind requires a smart grid - one with a sophisticated system of supply and management that can adjust to variations in demand. On this count too, Tamil Nadu has a long way to go. But the biggest limiting factor for the state is likely to be water. Between climate change and reckless exploitation and pollution of rivers, streams and lakes, Tamil Nadu is staring at a bleak water future. At least 60% of groundwater resources in the state are assessed as over-exploited, critical or semi-critical, according to India's Central Ground Water Board. In April 2017, Tamil Nadu farmers camped out in India's capital, Delhi, staging dramatic protests - stuffing dead rats in their mouths, stripping themselves naked in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home and drinking their own urine - to underscore the intensity of the drought back home. In June 2017, villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant - they alleged that more than 200,000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250,000 solar modules daily. Utility-scale solar farms - massive projects that supply power to the gird - such as the one in Ramanathapuram need to be re-evaluated, especially if they are to run in areas where water is scarce. The report predicts that Tamil Nadu will have 10.3GW of utility-scale solar installations by the end of this decade and only about 2GW of rooftop installations. Given that both the availability of sunlight and the demand for electricity are decentralised, it makes sense to maximise rooftop solar installations rather than to invest in large solar parks. The overall direction, if not the magnitude and rate of change, laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally.A healthy and environmentally sustainable future requires more than just switching from dirty coal to wind or solar power. But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	True
211	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-11-04	The US is also far from neutralizing climate emissions by the middle of the century, which as many experts say will be necessary for all countries in order to avert the worst of the crisis."	Local action by itself is not likely to be enough."	Without steep pollution reductions, climate change will risk tens of thousands of US lives every year by the end of the century."	Staying on par with those more advanced countries would require the US government to eliminate pollution from coal and natural gas powered electricity plants, transportation, manufacturing facilities and agriculture.	Trumphas alternately ignored or denied the climate crisis.	limate change is already affecting every sector and region of the United States, as hundreds of top scientists from 13 federal agencies made clear in a report the White House itself released last year," they said. <sep> The next president must repay this extraordinary climate debt by rapidly moving America to 100% clean energy and financing the decarbonization of the Global South," Su said, referring to the developing world. <sep> The secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, announced the development on Monday afternoon, saying the agreement would be an "unfair economic burden imposed on American workers, businesses and taxpayers" and that the US has already reduced its heat-trapping emissions. <sep> They called the Paris agreement, "a start, not a finish line," but "the best ignition switch the world could agree on to spark international cooperation on this critical issue". <sep> The Democratic 2020 election frontrunners challenging Trump have all said they would set the country on a path to neutralize its climate pollution by 2050. <sep> Jean Su, energy director with the Center for Biological Diversity's Climate Law Institute, said: "America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California, the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world." <sep> 	Trump begins year-long process to formally exit Paris climate agreement Donald Trump is moving to formally exit the Paris climate agreement, making the United States the only country in the world that will not participate in the pact, as global temperatures are set to rise 3C and worsening extreme weather will drive millions into poverty. The paperwork sent by the US government to withdraw begins a one-year process for exiting the deal agreed to at the UN climate change conference in Paris in 2015. The Trump administration will not be able to finalize its exit until a day after the presidential election in November 2020. The secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, announced the development on Monday afternoon, saying the agreement would be an "unfair economic burden imposed on American workers, businesses and taxpayers" and that the US has already reduced its heat-trapping emissions. But organizers of local city and state efforts to curb the crisis across America say the US is still trying to play a role in fighting the climate crisis, despite the actions of the federal government. Carl Pope, vice chair of the group America's Pledge, said its members – who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency – produce more than half the country's heat-trapping emissions and represent about 70% of the US gross domestic product. Another organization, the US Climate Alliance, includes the governors of 25 states, representing 55% of the US population. In the Paris agreement, the US agreed to cut its heat-trapping pollution at least 26% below 2005 levels by 2025. Dozens of countries are also pursuing goals to reach net-zero emissions by 2050. But they represent only about 11% of the world's climate footprint and exclude the biggest emitters: China, the US and India. Staying on par with those more advanced countries would require the US government to eliminate pollution from coal and natural gas powered electricity plants, transportation, manufacturing facilities and agriculture. Local action by itself is not likely to be enough." e don't think it's likely just with the states we have, we think we need the whole country to be moving together," Pope said. Jean Su, energy director with the Center for Biological Diversity's Climate Law Institute, said: "America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California, the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world." The next president must repay this extraordinary climate debt by rapidly moving America to 100% clean energy and financing the decarbonization of the Global South," Su said, referring to the developing world. In addition, the Trump administration has also pulled US funding commitments to help the developing world cut pollution. John Kerry and Chuck Hagel, president Barack Obama's secretaries of state and defense respectively, in a Washington Post op-ed, called it a "dark day for America"." limate change is already affecting every sector and region of the United States, as hundreds of top scientists from 13 federal agencies made clear in a report the White House itself released last year," they said. "The past five years were the warmest ever recorded. Without steep pollution reductions, climate change will risk tens of thousands of US lives every year by the end of the century." They called the Paris agreement, "a start, not a finish line," but "the best ignition switch the world could agree on to spark international cooperation on this critical issue". Senator Tom Carper, the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel, said: "Once again, President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain. Now America stands alone – nearly 200 countries have joined this global commitment to fighting climate change, even global pariahs like North Korea and civil war-torn countries like Syria." Carper said Trump is abandoning "tremendous economic opportunity" and public health benefits. Trumphas alternately ignored or denied the climate crisis. His agencies are nixing regulations for power plants and cars, and bolstering fossil fuels whenever possible. He promised, to widespread dismay, to exit the Paris agreement during his campaign. The Democratic 2020 election frontrunners challenging Trump have all said they would set the country on a path to neutralize its climate pollution by 2050. Nate Hultman, director of the University of Maryland's center for global sustainability and lead author of this year's America's Pledge report, pointed to new laws in New Mexico, Nevada, Washington, Maine, New York, Washington DC, and Puerto Rico for 100% clean energy targets. Hawaii and California already had such laws. Together, they represent 16% of the nation's electricity, more than doubling the share from 2018, he said." nother way to think about it is that Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement is supported in reality by only about 30% of the economy and 35% of the population," Hultman said. Even once the US withdraws, the country can participate as an observer in international climate negotiations. But despite the efforts of subnational governments, recent analysis shows the US is still far off track from its commitments, regardless of whether Trump pulled out. The US is also far from neutralizing climate emissions by the middle of the century, which as many experts say will be necessary for all countries in order to avert the worst of the crisis." e can still get there with a serious shift in policy in the coming years," said Kate Larsen, director of Rhodium's international energy and climate research.	True
207	pbs	left_center_bias	2019-05-27	think people realize that there are issues you can't solve at the nationallevel," he said.	"Peopledidn't take to the streets to elect or kick out a party, but for theseproblems to be solved."	Some measuresproposed for cutting emissions have already faced strong headwind, includingMacron's plan for a fuel tax hike in France that triggered protests fromworkers even as environmentalists accused the president of not doing enoughfor the climate._Sylvie Corbet in Paris, and Kirsten Grieshaber in Berlin, contributed to thisreport._	She attributed the result to young people's fears about globalwarming."	Manuel Rivera, a Green party member in the Germany capital, said the EuropeanParliament was the right place to tackle climate change."	he climate issue is super important at the moment," Tran said. <sep> he Greens will destroy this country and our job must and will be to fightthe Greens," said Gauland, whose party has claimed climate change isn't a man-made phenomenon but instead caused by factors such as solar activity, a theorymost scientists dismiss.A senior member of the anti-immigration and euroskeptic Danish People's Party,Kenneth Kristensen Berth, said the issues of the climate and the environmentwere "a bit hysterical" during the election, but insisted that Denmark'ssecond-largest political group "is not a climate-denial party." <sep> 	Europe wakes up to climate concerns after 'green wave' in vote BERLIN — Green parties in Germany, France, Britain and elsewhere celebratedbig gains in elections for the 751-seat European Parliament amid growing voterconcerns over climate change, expressed in large-scale student protests overrecent months. Provisional results Monday showed the left-leaning Greens' bloc coming fourthin the election with 69 seats, an increase of 17 compared with 2014. Ifconfirmed, the results could put the Greens in a position to tip the scaleswhen it comes to choosing the next head of the European Commission. The rise of the Greens, with their distinctly pro-European Union stance, marksa counterpoint to that of the far-right, anti-migrant parties that have beengrowing in popularity across Europe in recent years." hoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went ontothe streets will need to deliver now," said Sven Giegold, a leading candidatefor the German Green party that scooped up more than 20% of the votenationwide, an increase of almost 10% compared with 2014.)The drift from the traditional heavyweight parties to the Greens in Germanywas particularly pronounced in large cities such as Berlin, Munich andHamburg, and among young voters, where the party beat its bigger rivals amongall voters under 60, according to the Infratest dimap research institute. Armin Laschet, the governor of Germany's most populous state, North Rhine-Westphalia, and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkel's center-right Unionbloc, called the outcome "a wake-up call for politics." In neighboring France, 25% of voters aged 18-25 voted for the Greens, comparedwith 15% for the far-right National Rally and 12% for President EmmanuelMacron's Republic on the Move, according to the Ifop polling organization. Overall, the French green party EELV received almost 13.5% of the vote, comingthird. Yannick Jadot, lead candidate of EELV, welcomed the "great green wave" inEurope." he French sent us a very clear message: they want environment to be at theheart of our lives, at the heart of the political game and that message hasbeen spread across Europe," he said." he very good score of the greens in Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium and Francesends a signal that the center of gravity of the European politics isshifting, that in addition to the populists and the pro-business (parties),there are the Greens," Jadot said. Green parties also polled strongly in Austria, Sweden, Ireland, Denmark andthe Netherlands. In Britain, the Greens — a largely insignificant forcenationally — took 11 seats in the European Parliament vote." his was kind of a vote for all europhile and pro-integration positions theGreens have championed," Martin Florack, a political scientist at theUniversity of Duisburg-Essen, told German public broadcaster ARD. The enmity was reflected in comments by Alexander Gauland, the co-leader ofthe far-right Alternative for Germany party, who declared the Greens "our mainenemy" on Monday." he Greens will destroy this country and our job must and will be to fightthe Greens," said Gauland, whose party has claimed climate change isn't a man-made phenomenon but instead caused by factors such as solar activity, a theorymost scientists dismiss.A senior member of the anti-immigration and euroskeptic Danish People's Party,Kenneth Kristensen Berth, said the issues of the climate and the environmentwere "a bit hysterical" during the election, but insisted that Denmark'ssecond-largest political group "is not a climate-denial party." Among those celebrating the Greens' rise was Biggi Tran, a 26-year-old inBerlin. She attributed the result to young people's fears about globalwarming." he climate issue is super important at the moment," Tran said. Manuel Rivera, a Green party member in the Germany capital, said the EuropeanParliament was the right place to tackle climate change."  think people realize that there are issues you can't solve at the nationallevel," he said. Giegold, the German Greens' lead candidate, said voters expect the party todeliver on its environmental pledges, not secure powerful posts in theexecutive European Commission." cross Europe this was a vote to protect the climate," he said. "Peopledidn't take to the streets to elect or kick out a party, but for theseproblems to be solved." Green lawmakers in the European Parliament plan to scrutinize the bloc's 200billion euro ($223.7 billion) agriculture budget, which environmentalists sayplaces too much emphasis on large-scale farming and not enough on eco-friendlyagriculture, he said. The Greens also want every law passed at the EU-level to undergo a climatecheck. The party has strongly backed scientists' calls for the bloc to end allgreenhouse gas emissions by mid-century. Achieving this goal would require a drastic shift in Europe's economy, awayfrom fossil fuels to clean energy and low-carbon lifestyles. Some measuresproposed for cutting emissions have already faced strong headwind, includingMacron's plan for a fuel tax hike in France that triggered protests fromworkers even as environmentalists accused the president of not doing enoughfor the climate._Sylvie Corbet in Paris, and Kirsten Grieshaber in Berlin, contributed to thisreport._	True
266	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-02	Deterioration has increased in recent decades: constant pollution, the continued use of fossil fuels, intensive agricultural exploitation and deforestation are causing global temperatures to rise above safe levels," he said.	Of six different options, "global warming" and "climate change" performed the worst, beaten handily by "climate crisis," "environmental destruction," "weather destabilization," and "environmental collapse."	All of these "testify to the urgent need for interventions that can no longer be postponed," he warned.	Recent studies have shown that the language of "climate change" and "global warming" do not stir up an emotional reaction in people and so climate alarmists have issued an appeal for the use of more powerful expressions to provoke people to action.	Last April, a team of advertising consultants from SPARK Neuro released the results of a study suggesting that worn-out expressions such as "climate change" do not frighten people enough, whereas stronger vocabulary  such as "climate crisis" and "environmental collapse" produced a significantly stronger emotional response.	The expression "climate crisis," for instance, got "a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners" than "climate change," the study found. <sep> The pontiff went on to enumerate the effects of climate change: an "increase in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather phenomena," the "desertification of the soil," "melting of glaciers, scarcity of water, neglect of water basins and the considerable presence of plastic and microplastics in the oceans." <sep> Pope Francis Calls for 'Drastic Measures' to Combat 'Climate Emergency' In his Message for the World Day of Prayer for the Care of Creation, the pope adopted the apocalyptic language encouraged by climate alarmists to frighten people into taking action." <sep> He also underscored the forthcoming United Nations Climate Action Summit as of "particular importance" while proposing that governments will have the responsibility there of showing the political will to take "drastic measures to achieve as quickly as possible zero net greenhouse gas emissions." <sep> 	Pope Francis Calls for 'Drastic Measures' to Combat 'Climate Emergency' In his Message for the World Day of Prayer for the Care of Creation, the pope adopted the apocalyptic language encouraged by climate alarmists to frighten people into taking action." oo many of us act like tyrants with regard to creation," he declared. "Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles!""Now is the time to abandon our dependence on fossil fuels and move, quickly and decisively, towards forms of clean energy and a sustainable and circular economy. Let us also learn to listen to indigenous peoples, whose age-old wisdom can teach us how to live in a better relationship with the environment," he said. Recent studies have shown that the language of "climate change" and "global warming" do not stir up an emotional reaction in people and so climate alarmists have issued an appeal for the use of more powerful expressions to provoke people to action. Last April, a team of advertising consultants from SPARK Neuro released the results of a study suggesting that worn-out expressions such as "climate change" do not frighten people enough, whereas stronger vocabulary  such as "climate crisis" and "environmental collapse" produced a significantly stronger emotional response. The expression "climate crisis," for instance, got "a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners" than "climate change," the study found. In its research, SPARK Neuro measured physiological data such as brain activity and palm sweat to quantify people's emotional reactions to stimuli. Of six different options, "global warming" and "climate change" performed the worst, beaten handily by "climate crisis," "environmental destruction," "weather destabilization," and "environmental collapse." The pope has apparently joined the climate alarmists in employing more incendiary language, dropping his former references to climate change to speak of a "climate emergency" and an "environmental crisis" in Sunday's message. He also underscored the forthcoming United Nations Climate Action Summit as of "particular importance" while proposing that governments will have the responsibility there of showing the political will to take "drastic measures to achieve as quickly as possible zero net greenhouse gas emissions." Referring specifically to fires in the Amazon region, Francis called on everyone to "take up these opportunities to respond to the cry of the poor and of our earth!""Egoism and self-interest have turned creation, a place of encounter and sharing, into an arena of competition and conflict," he said. "In this way, the environment itself is endangered: something good in God's eyes has become something to be exploited in human hands." Deterioration has increased in recent decades: constant pollution, the continued use of fossil fuels, intensive agricultural exploitation and deforestation are causing global temperatures to rise above safe levels," he said. The pontiff went on to enumerate the effects of climate change: an "increase in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather phenomena," the "desertification of the soil," "melting of glaciers, scarcity of water, neglect of water basins and the considerable presence of plastic and microplastics in the oceans." All of these "testify to the urgent need for interventions that can no longer be postponed," he warned.	False
495	npr	left_center_bias	2018-11-26	Some of those impacts will get worse still, no matter what, as they are "locked in due to historical emissions."	But Ekwurzel cautions that we can't merely adapt our way out of this mess."	"It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	The cost of adaptation could be quite high, and it may never be enough," she says.	Again, the rise of extreme events like wildfires, floods and storm surges poses the most immediate danger to public health and well-being.	Along the coasts, more severe flooding threatens billions of dollars' worth of property and infrastructure, which in turn "could affect the economic stability of local governments, businesses, and the broader economy." <sep> Some communities are already adaptingThe good news in this dire report is that scores of local and state governments are taking action to lower their own carbon emissions and cope with climate impacts. <sep> The report states that more than half the projected damages of coastal property "are estimated to be avoidable through well-timed adaptation measures." <sep> Climate change could also worsen harmful ozone levels and air pollution. <sep> infrastructure was not built for these changesMuch of America's infrastructure is already aging and deteriorating, and it is taking a pounding from extreme weather. <sep> In some places, more intense rain and saltwater intrusion have led to dam failures, bridge and road closures and power outages. <sep> Effects on people and the economy are considerably less dire under these scenarios than in the most severe one. <sep> Already, there's the impact of increasingly frequent and intense extreme weather events. <sep> But there are other, less obvious risks. <sep> Global Change Research Program. <sep> And for some of its chapters, the report considers a third, far rosier future where emissions are drastically reduced and even where greenhouse gases are pulled back out of the atmosphere. <sep> Intense rain, flooding and heat can also hurt the nation's vast network of transportation, shutting down major highways and coastal airports and halting freight movement. <sep> However, it also uses a more moderate scenario, one that sees more aggressive actions to reduce emissions than are currently underway — less fossil fuel use, for example, or more efficient vehicles and buildings. <sep> Heavier downpours can also overwhelm sewer systems, causing untreated water to flow into rivers. <sep> That could send more people to the hospital for aggravated asthma and respiratory or cardiovascular problems and could even increase premature deaths. <sep> The report notes that power outages can affect drinking water treatment, among many other services people take for granted. <sep> The bigger the change, the greater the consequences for everything from heat waves to hurricanes. <sep> Extreme weather events could also cause price spikes and interrupt international trade. <sep> Click hereIncreasing rain and humidity could cause agricultural productivity to fall in the Midwest, and warming oceans will hurt fisheries. <sep> And the more climate changes, the more serious and even more dangerous the impacts will become." <sep> In the West, prolonged drought has forced utilities to cut back on electricity production from hydropower. <sep> "But costs will really start skyrocketing if we don't start reining in emissions." <sep> The report is in fact based mostly on two scenarios: One is the most severe view, in which little or no effort is made to lower emissions. <sep> But the report makes clear that changes today can make a big difference." <sep> Extreme heat (and higher demand) can also raise the risk of power outages. <sep> The warming climate and more frequent and intense rain might also expand the range of ticks and mosquitoes, exposing more people to diseases like West Nile, dengue fever, chikungunya and Lyme. <sep> This one marks the most detailed and blunt assessment yet of the dangers of unchecked global warming." <sep> As an example, the report notes that flooding in Thailand in 2011 disrupted production of Ford and Honda vehicles in the U.S. and cost a U.S.-based hard drive manufacturer $199 million in losses. <sep> It's absolutely not too late to take action," says Brenda Ekwurzel, a co-author and senior climate scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists. <sep> Some parts of the U.S. economy could suffer hundreds of billions of dollars in annual losses by the end of the century unless global greenhouse gas emissions are substantially reduced, the report finds. <sep> 	New U.S. Climate Assessment Forecasts Dire Effects On Economy, Health New U.S. Climate Assessment Forecasts Dire Effects On Economy, HealthThe Trump administration released a major climate assessment on Black Friday, the culmination of years of research by the country's top climate scientists. It's well over 1,000 pages and touches on a daunting range of topics. President Trump said Monday that he has read parts of it. "It's fine," he told reporters at the White House, although he said he doesn't believe the report's assessment that climate change will cause devastating economic impacts for the U.S. The report is required by Congress every four years and is issued by 13 federal agencies and the U.S. Global Change Research Program. This one marks the most detailed and blunt assessment yet of the dangers of unchecked global warming." Climate change is happening here and now," co-author Katherine Hayhoe of Texas Tech University told Weekend Edition Saturday. "It is affecting all of us no matter where we live. And the more climate changes, the more serious and even more dangerous the impacts will become." Here are some key points. Some parts of the U.S. economy could suffer hundreds of billions of dollars in annual losses by the end of the century unless global greenhouse gas emissions are substantially reduced, the report finds. Already, there's the impact of increasingly frequent and intense extreme weather events. The report notes that large wildfires are more frequent and that the areas burned by lightning-ignited fires are "expected to increase by at least 30 percent by 2060." The costs for fighting fires and forest management are on the rise (see chart). But there are other, less obvious risks. Don't see the graphic above? Click hereIncreasing rain and humidity could cause agricultural productivity to fall in the Midwest, and warming oceans will hurt fisheries. Along the coasts, more severe flooding threatens billions of dollars' worth of property and infrastructure, which in turn "could affect the economic stability of local governments, businesses, and the broader economy." Extreme weather events could also cause price spikes and interrupt international trade. As an example, the report notes that flooding in Thailand in 2011 disrupted production of Ford and Honda vehicles in the U.S. and cost a U.S.-based hard drive manufacturer $199 million in losses. Again, the rise of extreme events like wildfires, floods and storm surges poses the most immediate danger to public health and well-being. The report finds that with continued warming, heat-related deaths will increase. The warming climate and more frequent and intense rain might also expand the range of ticks and mosquitoes, exposing more people to diseases like West Nile, dengue fever, chikungunya and Lyme. Climate change could also worsen harmful ozone levels and air pollution. That could send more people to the hospital for aggravated asthma and respiratory or cardiovascular problems and could even increase premature deaths. As with so many climate impacts, the report notes that those most at risk include children, the elderly and low-income communities.U.S. infrastructure was not built for these changesMuch of America's infrastructure is already aging and deteriorating, and it is taking a pounding from extreme weather. In some places, more intense rain and saltwater intrusion have led to dam failures, bridge and road closures and power outages. Heavier downpours can also overwhelm sewer systems, causing untreated water to flow into rivers. In the West, prolonged drought has forced utilities to cut back on electricity production from hydropower. Extreme heat (and higher demand) can also raise the risk of power outages. The report notes that power outages can affect drinking water treatment, among many other services people take for granted. Intense rain, flooding and heat can also hurt the nation's vast network of transportation, shutting down major highways and coastal airports and halting freight movement. The report, like most climate studies, offers different scenarios for how fast the climate will change and by how much. The bigger the change, the greater the consequences for everything from heat waves to hurricanes. The White House issued a statement criticizing the report as largely based on the "most extreme scenario" for emissions of greenhouse gases. The report is in fact based mostly on two scenarios: One is the most severe view, in which little or no effort is made to lower emissions. However, it also uses a more moderate scenario, one that sees more aggressive actions to reduce emissions than are currently underway — less fossil fuel use, for example, or more efficient vehicles and buildings. And for some of its chapters, the report considers a third, far rosier future where emissions are drastically reduced and even where greenhouse gases are pulled back out of the atmosphere. Effects on people and the economy are considerably less dire under these scenarios than in the most severe one. Some communities are already adaptingThe good news in this dire report is that scores of local and state governments are taking action to lower their own carbon emissions and cope with climate impacts. Some of those impacts will get worse still, no matter what, as they are "locked in due to historical emissions." But the report makes clear that changes today can make a big difference." It's absolutely not too late to take action," says Brenda Ekwurzel, a co-author and senior climate scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists. The report states that more than half the projected damages of coastal property "are estimated to be avoidable through well-timed adaptation measures." But Ekwurzel cautions that we can't merely adapt our way out of this mess." The cost of adaptation could be quite high, and it may never be enough," she says. "But costs will really start skyrocketing if we don't start reining in emissions."	True
757	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-06-02	"There's enough to deal with with respect to the Paris agreement and making an informed decision about this important issue," he said.	We're actually making tremendous advances.	Pruitt denied that America has abandoned the victims of climate change around the world, arguing that it has done "a tremendous amount" to reduce carbon output to 1990s levels and will stay engaged and continue to export relevant technology."	For his own part, Pruitt acknowledged that global warming is occurring, and that "human activity contributes to it in some manner".	"I think part of the reason the president said it was a bad deal yesterday was because countries including China were not making substantial progress in reducing their carbon footprint."	There was a global backlash, and the EU said on Friday it will increase cooperation with China to combat climate change. <sep> f nations around the globe want to seek to learn from us on what we're doing to reduce our CO2 footprint, we're going to share that with them, and that's something that should occur and will occur in the future. <sep> We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that." <sep> US has nothing to apologize for on climate change, says defiant EPA chief The head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said America has nothing to apologise for on climate change and retains a seat at the negotiating table, claiming: "After all, we're the United States." <sep> hey weren't doing enough and America was carrying the load, so I think by negotiating a better deal, hopefully we can get a better result for our country and the world." <sep> 	US has nothing to apologize for on climate change, says defiant EPA chief The head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said America has nothing to apologise for on climate change and retains a seat at the negotiating table, claiming: "After all, we're the United States." Scott Pruitt joined other officials in declining to say whether Donald Trump believes human activity contributes to climate change, a day after the president pulled America out of the landmark Paris agreement. Pruitt claimed Trump wants better terms within the Paris framework or an entirely new deal, and dismissed warnings from world leaders that it is not negotiable." ell, that's up to them, right?" the EPA administrator told reporters. "The United States has a seat at the table. After all, we're the United States and we are leading with respect to CO2 reduction. We have made tremendous progress." f nations around the globe want to seek to learn from us on what we're doing to reduce our CO2 footprint, we're going to share that with them, and that's something that should occur and will occur in the future. We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that." Trump announced on Thursday that the US, the world's second biggest greenhouse gas emitter, would immediately stop implementing the 195-nation agreement brokered by Barack Obama in 2015. There was a global backlash, and the EU said on Friday it will increase cooperation with China to combat climate change. Pruitt denied that America has abandoned the victims of climate change around the world, arguing that it has done "a tremendous amount" to reduce carbon output to 1990s levels and will stay engaged and continue to export relevant technology." his is not a message to anyone in the world that America should be apologetic of its CO2 position. We're actually making tremendous advances. We're just not going to agree to frameworks and agreements that put us at an economic disadvantage and hurt citizens across this country." He echoed Trump's attack on members of the agreement as having economic rather than environmental motives. "The world applauded when we joined Paris, and you know why? I think they applauded because they knew it was going to put this country at an economic disadvantage, and the reason European leaders want us to stay in is because they know it will continue to shackle our economy, though we are leading the world with respect to our CO2 reduction." The EPA administrator was asked repeatedly whether Trump believes climate change is a hoax, as Trump previously claimed, but refused to give a straight answer. "There's enough to deal with with respect to the Paris agreement and making an informed decision about this important issue," he said. "That's where our focus has been the last several weeks." For his own part, Pruitt acknowledged that global warming is occurring, and that "human activity contributes to it in some manner". But he added: "Measuring with precision, from my perspective, the degree of human contribution is very challenging." Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, was similarly evasive on the topic. Asked if he can talk to Trump about the cause of climate change and report back at the next press briefing, he replied: "If I can, I will." Spicer gave short shrift to suggestions that Trump's decision will lift China as a global leader. "I think part of the reason the president said it was a bad deal yesterday was because countries including China were not making substantial progress in reducing their carbon footprint." hey weren't doing enough and America was carrying the load, so I think by negotiating a better deal, hopefully we can get a better result for our country and the world." Nicaragua and Syria are the only countries not party to the Paris accord; the former says it is not ambitious enough. Under a long exit process, America's withdrawal will not be become formal until November 2020.	False
238	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-05-29	The pitch fortaking on the climate challenge is a compelling one for reasons well beyondthe fact that it could prevent runaway catastrophe.	There's a climate crisis – but Trump's cabinet continues to backtrack on science | Kate Aronoff In an effort to suppress federal climate research, the ) willdirect state agencies to no longer consider worst-case scenarios of globalwarming.	To avert climate chaos, weneed to challenge the free-market fundamentalism that has conquered the worldsince the 1980s."	The problem is our politics, and how much of astranglehold the fossil fuel executives with the most to lose fromdecarbonization have over them.	Democratic leadership would do well to follow the lead of their party'sinsurgent progressive wing, and take the climate threat as seriously.	Any clear-eyed assessment of what the science is telling usspells out who the winners and losers of rapid decarbonization would be. <sep> It is ") with the laws of chemistry andphysics", according to IPCC scientists, to limit warming to the boldlyambitious target of 1.5C. <sep> That's a dead end for the planet, but also for theparty's political prospects. <sep> William Happer – most recently famous for) that the "demonization" of carbon dioxide"really differs little from the Nazi persecution of the Jews" – will lead ateam charged with reviewing the science produced by government researchers, nodoubt hunting for references to the disastrous sea-level rise, crop failuresand health impacts continued warming stands to create. <sep> embers of Trump's cabinet," Klein has), "with their desperate need todeny the reality of global warming, or belittle its implications", nonetheless"understand something that is fundamentally true. <sep> 	There's a climate crisis – but Trump's cabinet continues to backtrack on science | Kate Aronoff In an effort to suppress federal climate research, the ) willdirect state agencies to no longer consider worst-case scenarios of globalwarming. Climate modelers working for federal agencies will only be permittedto forecast to 2040, decades before the as-much-as 8C degrees of globalwarming that could take place by 2100 if we continue on our current path. William Happer – most recently famous for) that the "demonization" of carbon dioxide"really differs little from the Nazi persecution of the Jews" – will lead ateam charged with reviewing the science produced by government researchers, nodoubt hunting for references to the disastrous sea-level rise, crop failuresand health impacts continued warming stands to create. The irony in all of this is that Trump, Happer and company may have a firmergrasp on the epic scope of these climate projections than many Democrats. AsNaomi Klein argues, even the right's fervent conspiracy theorists tend tounderstand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are forbusiness as usual, which has distributed its profits among elites of bothparties." embers of Trump's cabinet," Klein has), "with their desperate need todeny the reality of global warming, or belittle its implications", nonetheless"understand something that is fundamentally true. To avert climate chaos, weneed to challenge the free-market fundamentalism that has conquered the worldsince the 1980s." For all their bluster and junk science, Republican decision-makers have aclear sense for their own self-interest – and just how much is at stake forthem and the rest of the 1%. Consider Happer himself, a retired physicist whohas spent his post-academy days hopping between various climate-denyingthinktanks, a good many of them funded by the fossil fuel industry. In 2015, Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report onthe benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company. The (real) coalcompany Peabody Energy has paid him to deliver testimony at a state hearing inMinnesota, and Happer has joined hands with groups like the HeritageFoundation, the Cato Institute and the Competitive Enterprise Institute – allrecipients of ample industry funding – to bolster Trump's agenda and castdoubt on the scientific consensus. As the New York Times reported in its article on the White House's new climateplans, both Happer and John Bolton – who tapped him for the administration –have received generous support from the Mercers, the rightwing family creditedwith both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic. We can't know whether Happer genuinely believes the nonsense he's spouting, oris just being paid well enough to sound like he does. The answer doesn'treally matter. Any clear-eyed assessment of what the science is telling usspells out who the winners and losers of rapid decarbonization would be. Tocap warming at around 2C – a threshold many already dealing with climateimpacts argue is too high – about three-quarters of known fossil fuel reserveswill need to be kept underground, a reality that if realized as public policywould crater the stock price of energy companies. Climate scientist Kevin Anderson has estimated that if the top 10% ofgreenhouse gas emitters were to live like the average European – animprovement even for many of us in the United States – global emissions coulddecline by a third. It is ") with the laws of chemistry andphysics", according to IPCC scientists, to limit warming to the boldlyambitious target of 1.5C. The problem is our politics, and how much of astranglehold the fossil fuel executives with the most to lose fromdecarbonization have over them. Establishment Democrats, meanwhile, are asleep at the wheel. The pitch fortaking on the climate challenge is a compelling one for reasons well beyondthe fact that it could prevent runaway catastrophe. The Green New Dealpromises a well-paid job for everyone who wants one, a real mass transitsystem, clean and affordable energy and universal healthcare – a necessity aspeople leave their jobs to find new work in the transition away from fossilfuels. While several Democratic primary contenders have embraced the Green New Dealand begun proposing their own plans, the frontrunner in that race, Joe Biden,and the Democrats' congressional leadership have been cooler toward it,offering neither a decarbonization plan nor a compelling reason for voters toget behind them come 2020. That's a dead end for the planet, but also for theparty's political prospects. With Donald Trump at their helm, Republicans will keep denying climate changebecause it represents a dire threat to their fossil fuel donors' bottom lines. Democratic leadership would do well to follow the lead of their party'sinsurgent progressive wing, and take the climate threat as seriously.	True
408	politicususa	left_bias	2018-10-08	But the report said the efficacy of measures, such as planting forests, bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2, were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks.	If the average global temperature temporarily exceeded 1.5C, additional carbon removal techniques would be required to return warming to below 1.5C by 2100.	Any additional emissions would require removing CO2 from the air."	he report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it," said Amjad Abdulla, the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	Steps like reflecting incoming solar radiation back into space were not assessed because of the uncertainties about using such technology, the report said.	To contain warming at 1.5C, manmade global net carbon dioxide emissions would need to fall by about 45 percent by 2030 from 2010 levels and reach "net zero" by mid-century. <sep> The targets agreed in Paris on cutting emissions would not be enough even if there were larger and more ambitious cuts after 2030, it said. <sep> 	Temperatures to rise 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2030-2052 without rapid steps: U.N. report LONDON/SEOUL (Reuters) – Temperatures are likely to rise by 1.5 degrees Celsius between 2030 and 2052 if global warming continues at its current pace and if the world fails to take rapid and unprecedented measures to stem the increase, a U.N. report said on Monday. The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) met last week in Incheon, South Korea to finalize the report, prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed. The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement. The Paris pact aims to limit global average temperature rise to "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels, while seeking to tighten the goal to 1.5C. There has already been a rise of 1C since the mid-1800s as industrialization lifted emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), the main greenhouse gas blamed for climate change.A rise of 1.5C would still carry climate-related risks for nature and mankind but the risks would be lower than a rise of 2C, the report summary said. Meeting the 1.5C limit required "rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented" change in land and energy use, industry, buildings, transport and cities, it said, adding temperatures would be 1.5C higher between 2030 and 2052 at the current pace. The targets agreed in Paris on cutting emissions would not be enough even if there were larger and more ambitious cuts after 2030, it said. To contain warming at 1.5C, manmade global net carbon dioxide emissions would need to fall by about 45 percent by 2030 from 2010 levels and reach "net zero" by mid-century. Any additional emissions would require removing CO2 from the air." imiting warming to 1.5C is possible within the laws of chemistry and physics but doing so would require unprecedented changes," said Jim Skea, co-chair of the IPCC working group which assesses climate change mitigation. The summary said renewable energy would need to supply 70 to 85 percent of electricity by 2050 to stay within a 1.5C limit, compared with about 25 percent now. Using carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology, the share of gas-fired power would need to be cut to 8 percent and coal to between 0 and 2 percent. There was no mention of oil in this context in the summary. If the average global temperature temporarily exceeded 1.5C, additional carbon removal techniques would be required to return warming to below 1.5C by 2100. But the report said the efficacy of measures, such as planting forests, bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2, were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks. Steps like reflecting incoming solar radiation back into space were not assessed because of the uncertainties about using such technology, the report said. It said keeping the rise in temperature to 1.5C would mean sea levels by 2100 would be 10 cm lower than if the warming was 2C, the likelihood of an Arctic Ocean free of sea ice in summer would be once per century not at least once a decade, and coral reefs would decline by 70-90 percent instead of being virtually wiped out." he report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it," said Amjad Abdulla, the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	True
800	BBC	left_center_bias	2017-06-01	The question of unfairness cropped up again and again, how the world's worst polluters, China and India, had "no meaningful obligations" placed on them by the deal.	Small island nations whose existence is threatened by rising sea levels were critical of the move.	Climate change, or global warming, refers to the damaging effect of gases, or emissions, released from industry and agriculture on the atmosphere.	The Paris accord is meant to limit the global rise in temperature attributed to emissions.	The President of the Marshall Islands, Hilda Heine, said it was "highly concerning for those of us that live on the frontline of climate change".	Opponents say withdrawing from the accord is an abdication of US leadership on a key global challenge. <sep> We deem the momentum generated in Paris in December 2015 irreversible and we firmly believe that the Paris agreement cannot be renegotiated, since it is a vital instrument for our planet, societies and economies," it said. <sep> 	Paris climate deal: Trump pulls US out of 2015 accord President Donald Trump has announced that the US is withdrawing from the 2015 Paris climate agreement. He said moves to negotiate a new "fair" deal that would not disadvantage US businesses and workers would begin. Mr Trump said during last year's presidential election campaign that he would take the step to help his country's oil and coal industries. Opponents say withdrawing from the accord is an abdication of US leadership on a key global challenge. The Paris agreement commits the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels and "endeavour to limit" them even more, to 1.5C. Only Syria and Nicaragua did not sign up to the deal. Speaking in the White House Rose Garden, Mr Trump characterised the Paris agreement as a deal that aimed to hobble, disadvantage and impoverish the US. He claimed the agreement would cost the US $3tn in lost GDP and 6.5 million jobs - while rival economies like China and India were treated more favourably." In order to fulfil my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens, the United States will withdraw from the Paris climate accord... but begin negotiations to re-enter either the Paris accord or a really entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the United States," he said. The speech contained several rhetorical flourishes reminiscent of his campaign speeches." We don't want other leaders and other countries laughing at us any more - and they won't be," he said."I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris. I promised I would exit or re-negotiate any deal which fails to serve America's interests. Many trade deals will soon be under re-negotiation." The BBC's Rajini Vaidyanathan in Washington says the move will be welcomed by many Trump supporters, as for them this is less about science - and more about sending a signal to so-called global elites. Analysts say the US withdrawal from the Paris agreement will make it more difficult for the world to reach the goals that it set for itself in the Paris agreement. The US contributes about 15% of global emissions of carbon, but it is also a significant source of finance and technology for developing countries in their efforts to fight rising temperatures. Mr Trump did not give a timescale for US withdrawal, but White House sources had earlier suggested it could take up to four years. Former US President Barack Obama, who agreed to the Paris deal, immediately criticised the move, accusing the Trump administration of "rejecting the future". Republican congressional leaders and the US coal industry backed the move, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell supporting Mr Trump "for dealing yet another significant blow to the Obama administration's assault on domestic energy production and jobs". Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called the decision "one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st Century because of the huge damage to our economy, our environment and our geopolitical standing". The leaders of France, Germany and Italy issued a joint statement rejecting a renegotiation of the agreement." We deem the momentum generated in Paris in December 2015 irreversible and we firmly believe that the Paris agreement cannot be renegotiated, since it is a vital instrument for our planet, societies and economies," it said. This was echoed by UK Prime Minister Theresa May, who expressed her disappointment and told Mr Trump in a phone call that the deal protects the "prosperity and security of future generations". Leaders of the Nordic nations - Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Norway, and Iceland - also condemned the move.A United Nations spokeswoman said it was a "major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security". Small island nations whose existence is threatened by rising sea levels were critical of the move. The President of the Marshall Islands, Hilda Heine, said it was "highly concerning for those of us that live on the frontline of climate change". Tech entrepreneur Elon Musk confirmed that he was leaving his role as an adviser to the Trump administration in protest." Am departing presidential councils. Climate change is real. Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world," he tweeted. President Trump's statement is a very clear repudiation of the Paris agreement and international efforts to fund climate mitigation and adaptation in poorer countries. In many ways it is far worse than many had expected. He sees it as a clear job killer, as an economy strangler and a desperately unfair stitch-up by other countries wanting to take economic advantage of the US. He spoke of being open to re-negotiating the deal or trying to build a new agreement - but the idea of "re-negotiation" is an unlikely scenario. The scale of his opposition, seeing the deal as "a massive redistribution of US wealth to other countries" is a clear indication that he has fully bought into an economic nationalist and climate denier perspective. The question of unfairness cropped up again and again, how the world's worst polluters, China and India, had "no meaningful obligations" placed on them by the deal. The overall tone and content of his speech clearly plays to his base but is also a clear disavowal of multilateralism, especially on climate change, and will definitely push other countries more closely together on this issue. Climate change, or global warming, refers to the damaging effect of gases, or emissions, released from industry and agriculture on the atmosphere. The Paris accord is meant to limit the global rise in temperature attributed to emissions.	False
605	National Review	right_bias	2017-04-26	The Democratic party has an official policy to cut pollution from energy use through regulation and subsidies, yet another AAF analysis revealed no pathway exists to achieve those stated objectives via regulation.	Responding to challenges in the energy sphere one issue at a time results in many conservatives missing the forest for the trees and not talking enough about what pro-market energy policy looks like.	An analysis of President Obama's environmental legacy by the American Action Forum found the negative effect of regulations on economic growth led to forgone environmental benefits (richer economies tend to value clean air more and emit less relative to production), and led to regulations that were about half as effective as claimed on paper.	An incrementalistic approach — one that seeks to level the subsidy playing field or merely to pare back Obama's regulatory legacy — will do little to foster the conditions needed for the sorts of innovation that both the Right and Left seek.	Rethinking counterproductive energy-efficiency regulations — which reduce incentives for innovation and risk taking with new technologies — should also be a part of the equation.	However, regulators likely overstated the net benefits of regulations, and the Clean Power Plan would have accomplished little, at high cost, while proving legally vulnerable and politically unstable. <sep> Opportunities to cut red tape abound, from hydroelectric and advanced nuclear licensing to modernizing the Clean Air Act. <sep> Strengthening these markets, while minimizing political interventions like power-plant bailouts, is crucial to the performance of the electricity industry. <sep> Attempts to eliminate these regulations and subsidies have been hampered by conservatives' lack of an overarching vision for energy policy. <sep> Conservatives Need an Energy Vision For conservatives seeking a major victory, a great place to start would be to fix the mess of energy subsidies and regulations that have accumulated over the past eight years. <sep> While the Left is happy to use regulation to promote specific forms of energy they find ideologically appealing, the response from conservatives all too often has been to weakly offer the "all of the above" catchphrase as a counterweight. <sep> Removing regulatory barriers to entry for unconventional technologies (such as energy storage) in wholesale electricity markets would help level the playing field. <sep> 	Conservatives Need an Energy Vision For conservatives seeking a major victory, a great place to start would be to fix the mess of energy subsidies and regulations that have accumulated over the past eight years. In the years since Barack Obama took office, there were $548 billion in energy and environment regulations finalized, and the projected budget currently estimates at least $250 billion in federal energy subsidies. Attempts to eliminate these regulations and subsidies have been hampered by conservatives' lack of an overarching vision for energy policy. While the Left is happy to use regulation to promote specific forms of energy they find ideologically appealing, the response from conservatives all too often has been to weakly offer the "all of the above" catchphrase as a counterweight. Even worse, conservatives sometimes have played the Left's game in reverse, using government to promote their own favored forms of energy, rather than to promote competition and markets. For example, while criticizing the tax credits for wind and solar power, conservatives have embraced subsidies for carbon capture and sequestration and government regulation on nuclear insurance. Conservative principles uphold free markets, competition, and the rule of law — yet too many conservatives are content to get their electricity from regulated monopolies, or build infrastructure under outdated regulatory-approval processes that take, on average, 70 months to complete. While conservatives can be bellicose about ending the "war on coal," they have placed far less emphasis on the benefits of policies to improve liquidity in natural-gas markets. Responding to challenges in the energy sphere one issue at a time results in many conservatives missing the forest for the trees and not talking enough about what pro-market energy policy looks like. Unwittingly, in conservatives' quest for equal treatment of different energy sources, they have adopted policies that reinforce government's role in dictating energy outcomes. Even when Republicans showed budget discipline in 2015 by finally putting a sunset on several production and investment tax credits, they did so without ending all subsidies for wind and solar. The result is entrenched government preference for already mature wind and solar technologies, and stymied competition from emerging technologies, such as fuel cells and geothermal, that would benefit the most from the tax credits. Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles. It should be one that centers on quality institutions and policies that leverage competition and consumer choice. Markets, not mandates or subsidies, will drive cost reductions, innovations, and deployment of clean technologies. An incrementalistic approach — one that seeks to level the subsidy playing field or merely to pare back Obama's regulatory legacy — will do little to foster the conditions needed for the sorts of innovation that both the Right and Left seek. Progressives who favor heavy regulation and energy subsidies had a field day during Obama's presidency. However, regulators likely overstated the net benefits of regulations, and the Clean Power Plan would have accomplished little, at high cost, while proving legally vulnerable and politically unstable. An analysis of President Obama's environmental legacy by the American Action Forum found the negative effect of regulations on economic growth led to forgone environmental benefits (richer economies tend to value clean air more and emit less relative to production), and led to regulations that were about half as effective as claimed on paper. Subsidies also have been inefficient. The National Academy of Sciences found that production and investment tax credits for wind and solar reduced carbon dioxide emissions at a cost of a whopping $250 per ton. A 2015 Congressional Budget Office report acknowledged that tax credits are less effective at achieving policy goals than alternative, market-driven policies. An AAF analysis of tax credits for renewables found the costs to taxpayers rose at a faster rate than the renewable energy output, indicating declining performance of the subsidies. The Left's focus on energy policy has been costly, with poor outcomes. The Democratic party has an official policy to cut pollution from energy use through regulation and subsidies, yet another AAF analysis revealed no pathway exists to achieve those stated objectives via regulation. Even assuming the targets were achievable at costs similar to past regulations, the economic costs of the regulatory burden would exceed $7 trillion. Conservatives should seek opportunities to shed regulations and subsidies in favor of market-oriented policies. This means a plan to phase out distortionary tax preferences completely. Expanding full-cost expensing in the tax code would boost R&D fairly and efficiently. Additional R&D benefits would come from shifting Department of Energy priorities from applied research toward basic research. Opportunities to cut red tape abound, from hydroelectric and advanced nuclear licensing to modernizing the Clean Air Act. Removing regulatory barriers to entry for unconventional technologies (such as energy storage) in wholesale electricity markets would help level the playing field. Rethinking counterproductive energy-efficiency regulations — which reduce incentives for innovation and risk taking with new technologies — should also be a part of the equation. Conservatives should also protect and enhance competitive energy markets. A report from the R Street Institute found that competitive electricity markets cut costs while boosting innovation and environmental quality. Strengthening these markets, while minimizing political interventions like power-plant bailouts, is crucial to the performance of the electricity industry. Improving rules that affect price formation in electricity markets will also help stimulate efficient investments. Conservatives have an opportunity to retake the energy narrative with a platform that favors competition and choice. It would be a return to conservative basics, where industries and technologies excel on their merits, not political popularity. In so doing, conservatives will advance the American economy and their political interests well into the future.— Philip Rossetti is a data analyst at the American Action Forum; Devin Hartman is electricity policy manager and senior fellow with the R Street Institute.	True
646	National Review	right_bias	2017-04-12	But water conservation can only go so far.	Conservation Isn't the Solution to California's Water Problems In January, California's Jerry Brown became the first governor in the state's history to declare a state of emergency for a drought and a flood simultaneously.	It's time for these conservation regulations to be lifted and for the state to do what it should have done a long time ago: look to expand its water supply.	California ought to begin expanding its water supply rather than incessantly regulate how citizens use water, especially now that the governor doesn't retain the broad powers spelled out under the drought state of emergency (Brown's flood state of emergency doesn't give him the same power to regulate water use).	Brown has indicated that he hopes to expand the state's water supply with new sources of water, but his focus on making conservation "a way of life" — in a time when California's streets are flooding — suggests otherwise.	Now, even he has concluded that California is no longer in a drought. <sep> Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months. <sep> But, rather than lift the burdensome water regulations implemented to cope with the drought, he announced that many of those regulations would remain intact, even though the flood emergency remains. <sep> Certainly, Californians — and everyone else — ought to find ways to responsibly use natural resources such as water. <sep> 	Conservation Isn't the Solution to California's Water Problems In January, California's Jerry Brown became the first governor in the state's history to declare a state of emergency for a drought and a flood simultaneously. On Friday, Brown lifted the drought emergency in all but four counties (Fresno, Kings, Tulare, and Tuolumne counties). But, rather than lift the burdensome water regulations implemented to cope with the drought, he announced that many of those regulations would remain intact, even though the flood emergency remains. Brown's latest plan, "Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life," allows the state to oversee conservation goals it sets in urban water-management agencies, as well as to permanently prohibit activities it deems wasteful of the water supply. It also creates more stringent standards for establishing these water-use goals. Brown has indicated that he hopes to expand the state's water supply with new sources of water, but his focus on making conservation "a way of life" — in a time when California's streets are flooding — suggests otherwise. Certainly, Californians — and everyone else — ought to find ways to responsibly use natural resources such as water. Mandating conservation, however, is drastically different from incentivizing it. Even though there is no longer a drought state of emergency in their state, Californians will be fined if they wash their automobiles with hoses "not equipped with a shut-off nozzle," water lawns in a way that results in water run-off, or hose off sidewalks. The plan also gives urban government agencies until 2025 to comply with their conservation targets, limiting the water usage of Californians. But water conservation can only go so far. California ought to begin expanding its water supply rather than incessantly regulate how citizens use water, especially now that the governor doesn't retain the broad powers spelled out under the drought state of emergency (Brown's flood state of emergency doesn't give him the same power to regulate water use). John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Brown's assertion of state power in this area will give it "permanent, unchecked control over local water management decisions." And, as Brown's plan begins to drive water consumption down, Woodling said, it could hurt the economy. Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months. Now, even he has concluded that California is no longer in a drought. It's time for these conservation regulations to be lifted and for the state to do what it should have done a long time ago: look to expand its water supply.	True
801	The New York Times	left_center_bias	2017-04-18	But withdrawing from the landmark accord that committed nearly every nation to take action against planet-warming emissions could create diplomatic blowback, while weakening American leadership in arenas far afield from energy and the environment.	Its primary policy for meeting that target would be the Clean Power Plan, a set of Environmental Protection Agency regulations designed to shutter hundreds of heavily polluting coal-fired power plants, the nation's chief source of greenhouse emissions.	Mr. Obama declared that the United States would reduce its planet-warming carbon pollution about 26 percent from 2005 levels by 2025.	"It could lead to a carbon tariff trade war."	In response, Peter Trelenberg, the manager of environmental policy and planning at Exxon Mobil, wrote to Mr. Banks, "Exxon Mobil supports the Paris agreement as an effective framework for addressing the risks of climate change."		Trump Policy Advisers, Split Over Paris Accord, Will Debate U.S. Role in Pact Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil, has also spoken in favor of "keeping a seat at the table" in the climate pact, and in recent days, major corporations have stepped forward to embrace that position. While no decision has been made, experts tracking it say that view is gaining traction." e do not currently believe the Trump administration plans to withdraw from either Paris agreement," wrote Kevin Book, an analyst at ClearView Energy Partners, a Washington firm, in a memo to clients on Monday. While Mr. Trump does not have the power to undo a multilateral United Nations accord, he could withdraw the world's largest economy from the pact, weakening it substantially. Such a move would win cheers from the nation's most powerful conservative political advocates, and give Mr. Trump bragging rights in coal country. But withdrawing from the landmark accord that committed nearly every nation to take action against planet-warming emissions could create diplomatic blowback, while weakening American leadership in arenas far afield from energy and the environment. Besides, keeping the United States' name on the accord does not obligate the Trump administration to abide by the ambitious emissions-control pledges of Mr. Trump's predecessor, Barack Obama. At least one senior White House climate policy adviser, George David Banks, has advocated staying in the agreement while replacing the Obama plan with a weaker, more industry-friendly pledge. Over recent weeks, Mr. Banks has asked top officials at several major corporations, including Exxon Mobil, who have similar views, to submit letters to the White House confirming their support of staying in the Paris deal, even if in a modified form. In response, Peter Trelenberg, the manager of environmental policy and planning at Exxon Mobil, wrote to Mr. Banks, "Exxon Mobil supports the Paris agreement as an effective framework for addressing the risks of climate change." Royal Dutch Shell and BP, European companies with significant investments in the United States, have also endorsed the accord. Last month, Representative Kevin Cramer, a Republican from oil-, gas- and coal-rich North Dakota, wrote, "The U.S. should present a new pledge that does no harm to our economy." Mr. Cramer, an early supporter of Donald J. Trump, advised Mr. Trump on energy issues during his presidential campaign. Colin Marshall, the chief executive of Cloud Peak, a major coal producer in Wyoming, the nation's largest coal-mining state, also wrote to Mr. Trump: "By remaining in the Paris agreement, albeit with a much different pledge on emissions, you can help shape a more rational international approach to climate policy." Regardless of his decision, Mr. Trump has already undermined the United States' ability to meet its Paris pledge. Mr. Obama declared that the United States would reduce its planet-warming carbon pollution about 26 percent from 2005 levels by 2025. Its primary policy for meeting that target would be the Clean Power Plan, a set of Environmental Protection Agency regulations designed to shutter hundreds of heavily polluting coal-fired power plants, the nation's chief source of greenhouse emissions. Last month, Mr. Trump directed Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, to begin the legal process of dismantling the Clean Power Plan. Whether or not the United States remains in the Paris pact, it almost certainly will not be able to meet its pledged pollution-reduction targets. Mr. Pruitt has emerged as a leading voice for withdrawal from the Paris deal. Last week, he told Fox News, "It's something we need to exit." That reflects the views of powerful conservative political advocacy groups such as Americans for Prosperity, which is funded by the influential libertarian brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch." hat we say to the White House is that it's clearly a terrible agreement for the American people," said Tim Phillips, the president of Americans for Prosperity. That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation, the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals. Harold G. Hamm, the chief executive of Continental Resources and a Trump campaign adviser, has also condemned the pact. "Cancel the Paris climate treaty and any other agreements entered into unilaterally and without the consent of Congress," Mr. Hamm wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump before his inauguration. Bob Murray, the chief executive of the coal company Murray Energy, who is personally close with the president, has also strongly criticized the deal. Mr. Book, the analyst, noted that the risks of withdrawing from the Paris deal include not only diplomatic ill will, but also the possibility of trade reprisals. Countries that tax emissions of carbon dioxide pollution could place a carbon tariff on imports of American-made goods. The European Union currently charges polluters fees for carbon emissions, while China, Mexico and Canada are in the process of carrying out such programs." f the U.S. were to pull out, it would do so in the context that would invite trade reprisals," Mr. Book said. "It could lead to a carbon tariff trade war." Daniel M. Bodansky, an expert in international environmental agreements at Arizona State University, said that remaining in the Paris deal but weakening the United States' commitment could still have the effect of generating some ill will — but without the repercussions of trade sanctions." hey could just submit a new plan," he said. "People internationally would not be happy, but they'd be a lot less unhappy than if the U.S. actually pulled out."	True
344	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-07-11	They referred to the "irreversible" agreement as a "vital instrument for our planet, societies and economies."	Corporate America is doing its part.	When individuals are free to choose when and how to adjust their daily lives to protect the environment — without government compulsion requiring it — the environment reaps the benefits.	The globalist decree would have left us spending trillions of dollars a year to mitigate a rise in global temperatures, without really mitigating it at all.	oing green" is creating new jobs and new industries to boot.		I Was Right When I Said That President Trump Saved The Planet A little over a year ago, I wrote that President Trump saved the planet when he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate agreement. The decision, I argued, "enabled the free market to do exactly what liberals want: Empower individuals to better the environment" — without government intervention. As individuals, we are taking steps to protect the environment by choice — not by mandate — and going green is paying off. According to the Energy Information Administration's (EIA) latest monthly energy report, U.S. carbon dioxide emissions are at their lowest point since 1992. Per-capita carbon emissions are the lowest they've been since 1950. We're also outpacing our allies, many of whom criticized President Trump's decision to put America first. In the last year alone, U.S. carbon emissions fell more than 0.5 percent, while European emissions rose 1.5 percent. It's the height of irony, given Europe's virtue signaling last year. After President Trump shredded his predecessor's unconstitutional "treaty," the globalist leaders of France, Germany and Italy claimed it "cannot be renegotiated." They referred to the "irreversible" agreement as a "vital instrument for our planet, societies and economies." The globalist decree would have left us spending trillions of dollars a year to mitigate a rise in global temperatures, without really mitigating it at all. The Paris climate agreement was expected to drop temperatures by one-fifth of a degree over the next century. Apparently, it wasn't such a "vital instrument" after all. Europe is failing to pull its weight as Americans cut pollution to historic lows. The decline in U.S. carbon emissions is a testament to the free market's enduring power. There is nothing more vital for environmental protection than our freedom to protect the environment as individuals — without Big Government and its endless red tape. Anti-Trump liberals and conservatives alike are investing in renewable energy, choosing hybrid vehicles over gas-guzzlers and encouraging their neighbors to do the same. We're cutting down on waste like never before. We're reusing more than ever. And we're recycling, recycling, recycling. This year, the environmental industry is expected to grow five percent to $407 billion — without the Paris agreement. By 2020, the waste management segment alone is projected to surpass $70 billion in economic activity, with an average annual growth rate of 3.6 percent. Corporate America is doing its part. Tesla is working on the world's largest battery farm in the California desert, reaffirming its commitment to electric vehicles and an energy grid powered by renewable options. The new power plant will be capable of producing "up to 1.1 GWh" of electricity — enough energy for millions of homes. Tesla isn't alone. Last year, 19 companies announced deals with energy providers to build 2.78 gigawatts worth of solar and wind generating capacity. At least 22 companies in the Fortune 500 have committed to buying enough renewable energy to match 100 percent of their electricity use moving forward. Earlier this year, oil and gas companies such as ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell met with Pope Francis to discuss climate change and put concrete solutions on the table. They're backing up their words: ExxonMobil is developing renewable oils from genetically engineered algae, while Royal Dutch Shell vows to become a leading supplier of renewable electricity." oing green" is creating new jobs and new industries to boot. As always, free-market forces outperform the unfunded mandates and taxpayer-funded, job-killing enforcement bureaucracies of Big Government. Even as the Left demands more environmental regulations, President Trump is wise to side with the free market. When individuals are free to choose when and how to adjust their daily lives to protect the environment — without government compulsion requiring it — the environment reaps the benefits. When private enterprise is free to experiment and innovate, we see a stronger economy and a real commitment to environmental action. President Trump understands environmental protection is impossible without individual action and private innovation. It's because of free enterprise the environmental industry is as large as it is today and growing. By protecting individual freedom from government regulation, President Trump is saving our jobs — and the environment to boot. Dan Backer is a veteran campaign counsel who has worked for more than 100 candidates, PACs, and political organizations, including Great America PAC and the Committee to Defend the President. He is founding attorney of political. law, a campaign finance and political law firm. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	True
110	cnn	left_bias	2019-02-28	The resolution proposes, "providing all people of the United States with — (i) high-quality health care; (ii) affordable, safe, and adequate housing; (iii) economic security; and (iv) access to clean water, clean air, healthy and affordable food, and nature."	The package of legislation is aimed at, among other things, addressing climate change.	The resolution, co-sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020, has been heavily criticized by those on the right.	The deal describes a 10-year "economic mobilization" that would overhaul the nation's infrastructure and build new layers into the existing social safety net.	It calls for the creation of millions of new high-wage jobs to help wipe out poverty.	It would phase out fossil fuel use, and calls for the elimination of greenhouse gas emissions and pollution in agriculture, transportation, manufacturing and construction. <sep> 	Trump's top economic adviser: 'The Green New Deal will literally destroy the economy' Speaking at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference, National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow slammed the progressive proposal that was recently introduced by Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts. Kudlow said the deal "will knock out energy, transportation, airlines, jobs, businesses. We'll probably lose 10 to 15% of our GDP. It's remarkable." The package of legislation is aimed at, among other things, addressing climate change. It would phase out fossil fuel use, and calls for the elimination of greenhouse gas emissions and pollution in agriculture, transportation, manufacturing and construction. The deal describes a 10-year "economic mobilization" that would overhaul the nation's infrastructure and build new layers into the existing social safety net. It calls for the creation of millions of new high-wage jobs to help wipe out poverty. The resolution, co-sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020, has been heavily criticized by those on the right. Kudlow likened the deal to socialism and called for the American people to "put socialism on trial and convict it." The resolution proposes, "providing all people of the United States with — (i) high-quality health care; (ii) affordable, safe, and adequate housing; (iii) economic security; and (iv) access to clean water, clean air, healthy and affordable food, and nature." The deal proposes "guaranteeing a job with a family-sustaining wage, adequate family and medical leave, paid vacations, and retirement security to all people of the United States." Kudlow said universal health care and ending private insurance were also "crazy ideas," citing high costs. He said, "guaranteed jobs, free to those who don't want to work, probably cost $45 trillion." Earlier this week Ivanka Trump, a senior White House adviser and the President's daughter, was asked about the Green New Deal proposal and what she would say to people who are enticed by the proposal's job guarantee. In response, Ivanka Trump said, "I don't think most Americans in their heart want to be given something," adding, "People want to work for what they get, so I think this idea of a guaranteed minimum is not something most people want." Ocasio-Cortez fired back on Twitter and said, "A living wage isn't a gift, it's a right. Workers are often paid far less than the value they create."	False
614	NewsBusters	right_bias	2017-09-14	Climate change activists often claim carbon emissions from driving and flying are a significant cause of man-made warming.	High Flying Celebs Fundraise For Hurricanes, Tout 'Effects of Climate Change' Celebrities often claim to be concerned about the environment, usually without changing their lavish lifestyles or pollution.	During a telethon fundraiser on Sept. 12, for Harvey and Irma relief, celebrities like Beyonce linked manmade climate change to the hurricanes.	In 2011, she co-wrote a USA Today op-ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.	The actor also asked if "are we too late" to stop climate change and blasted the supposed "corporate greed of the coal, oil and gas industries" in January 2016.		High Flying Celebs Fundraise For Hurricanes, Tout 'Effects of Climate Change' Celebrities often claim to be concerned about the environment, usually without changing their lavish lifestyles or pollution. During a telethon fundraiser on Sept. 12, for Harvey and Irma relief, celebrities like Beyonce linked manmade climate change to the hurricanes. But the very stars participating in the telethon burn massive amounts of carbon dioxide by their extravagant lifestyles, just as Daily Mail reported on Sept. 13." he effects of climate change are playing out around the world every day," Beyonce claimed in a pre-recorded message. But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change, why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?"The A-list celebrities who starred in the telethon for those affected by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma have clocked up hundreds of thousands of air miles which have fuelled rising temperatures and helped create devastating storms," Daily Mail foreign reporter Gareth Davies wrote. Climate change activists often claim carbon emissions from driving and flying are a significant cause of man-made warming. Davies found that, in just the past year, Leonardo DiCaprio, George Clooney, Justin Bieber and Beyonce produced at least 52.11 tons of carbon dioxide with their air travel alone. Bieber's jet-setting had the highest carbon footprint, an egregious 22 tons. In comparison, the average American's total carbon footprint is 20 tons. According to Davies, if "driving, pollution from their concerts or films and the electric in their homes are considered," the total was "likely to be astronomic." Although DiCaprio is a self-proclaimed environmentalist, he continued to live an incompatible lifestyle of massive carbon emissions. For the 2017 Oscars, DiCaprio and a fellow actor flew an someone 15,000 miles round trip to tidy their eyebrows. The actor also asked if "are we too late" to stop climate change and blasted the supposed "corporate greed of the coal, oil and gas industries" in January 2016. All while owning multiple mansions, vacationing on yachts and flying thousands of miles in private jets. Even Forbes noted, "DiCaprio himself is one of those "big polluters," which diminishes his moral authority to lecture others on reducing their own carbon emissions" in March 2016. Forbes also challenged DiCaprio's claim that he only produces 11 tons of carbon annually. Clooney criticized global warming skeptics as "stupid" and "ridiculous" in 2013. Despite his rhetoric on climate change however, the actor and his wife Amal owned eight homes as of March 2016, according to the Daily Mail. Other celebrities like Julia Roberts are also eco-hypocrites. In 2011, she co-wrote a USA Today op-ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change. Yet she has owned five homes and a private jet all at the same time. More than 45 celebrities took part in the fundraiser, which brought in more than $44 million. All of the celebrities most likely live far more lavish, carbon-burning lives than average Americans.	False
70	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-02-07	e set a goal to get to net-zero, rather than zero emissions, in 10 years because we aren't sure that we'll be able to fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes that fast," reads the initial version of the resolution's fact-sheet.	The question then becomes: How do you eliminate emissions from cows, sheep and other animals?Certainly, environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of people's diets in the name of the climate, but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health.	The resolution calls for a World War II-style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations.	Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals.	Republican lawmakers worried the Obama-era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers.		TARGETS COW FLATULENCE... Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's newly-released "Green New Deal" resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal, but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions. The resolution calls for a World War II-style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations. If that's the case, that means any subsequent "Green New Deal" legislation would have to deal with a major source of methane emissions — cow flatulence and burps." e set a goal to get to net-zero, rather than zero emissions, in 10 years because we aren't sure that we'll be able to fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes that fast," reads the initial version of the resolution's fact-sheet. However, Ocasio-Cortez staffers have since removed "farting" from fact-sheet. Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming. Enteric fermentation, the digestive process in cows and other ruminant animals, is the largest source of U.S. methane emissions, according to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) data. EPA says "cattle account for the majority of [methane] emissions in the United States for this source category," referring to emissions from enteric fermentation. Most methane from cows comes from their burps, not farts. (RELATED: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez: 'Green New Deal Is About Social Justice')Being a non-binding resolution, the "Green New Deal" doesn't offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated. The question then becomes: How do you eliminate emissions from cows, sheep and other animals?Certainly, environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of people's diets in the name of the climate, but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health. Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals. The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others. The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014, which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations. Republican lawmakers worried the Obama-era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers. Methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, but makes up a much smaller slice of America's emissions profile. Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane, which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
316	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-06-18	And therein lies the problem.	Thus, UNEP and the Obama EPA agreed to "cooperate on responses to climate change," including mitigating greenhouse gas emissions, reducing short-lived climate forcers and supporting adaptation and resilience to climate change.	For its part, UNFCCC has enthusiastically spread climate alarmism and gone to extraordinary lengths to deny the residents of the world's poorest access to reliable and affordable electricity and transportation fuel, thereby perpetuating their poverty.	For the "common goals and objectives" shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil-fuel energy development, promote an assortment of politically fashionable, but otherwise uncompetitive, green technologies and products, and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the world's poorest countries.	Even if the MOU is "non-binding," so, too, are the commitments all parties agreed to under the Paris climate accord.		This Obama-Era UN-EPA Agreement Has To Go As the Trump White House continues its cleanup of the mess — foreign and domestic — left behind by the Obama administration, it should toss out a little-noticed document that entangles the U.S. in some of the worst schemes ever cooked up by U.N. bureaucrats and their cronies in the global environmental movement. On September 16, 2016, the Obama EPA entered into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP). Concluded just a few weeks before the 2016 presidential election, the MOU bears the signature for the U.S. of then-EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. In the document, UNEP and the Obama EPA vow to "consolidate, further develop and intensify their cooperation and effectiveness to achieve their common goals and objectives in the field of the environment." And therein lies the problem. For the "common goals and objectives" shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil-fuel energy development, promote an assortment of politically fashionable, but otherwise uncompetitive, green technologies and products, and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the world's poorest countries. An Instrument of the Paris Climate AccordThe document was signed nine months after the adoption of the U.N.-sponsored Paris climate accord, and the wording of the MOU leaves little doubt that it was seen as an instrument to underscore America's commitment to curtail its production and use of energy in the name of combatting climate change. Thus, UNEP and the Obama EPA agreed to "cooperate on responses to climate change," including mitigating greenhouse gas emissions, reducing short-lived climate forcers and supporting adaptation and resilience to climate change. Taking these and similar steps, the MOU says, will enable the advance "toward green economies and resource-efficient societies through collaborative activities to promote and support sustainable consumption and production." In truth, "green economies" are those with taxpayer-subsidized and government-mandated renewable energy (primarily wind and solar). And what constitutes "sustainable consumption and production" is in the eyes of the beholding bureaucrat, empowered either by the administrative regulatory state or by legislation adopted at the behest of deep-pocketed special interests. All of this is to be pursued through jointly held symposia, seminars, workshops, study tours, collaborative research and development projects, exchanges and training programs and other forms of cooperation that strengthen the bonds between UNEP and the U.S. Under the MOU, each side is to name a "Senior Coordinator" to oversee the holding of "regular joint meetings on matters of common interest." To make sure the two sides stay in touch, "such meetings are to take place at least once every six months in accordance with an agenda approved by them in advance of every meeting." The outfit the Obama administration teamed up within the MOU, UNEP, was founded in 1972 by wealthy Canadian businessman Maurice Strong; it is headquartered in Nairobi, Kenya and has an office conveniently located in Washington, D.C. Strong (1929–2015) was Under-Secretary-General of the U.N. when he founded UNEP and was an early advocate for combatting what he said was human-induced climate change, then known as global warming. In keeping with Strong's vision, UNEP has worked closely with the Bonn-based United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). For its part, UNFCCC has enthusiastically spread climate alarmism and gone to extraordinary lengths to deny the residents of the world's poorest access to reliable and affordable electricity and transportation fuel, thereby perpetuating their poverty. Given UNEP's pedigree and the Obama administration's unbridled hostility to fossil fuels, President Trump should scrap the UNEP-EPA MOU. Trump and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt inherited the MOU from their predecessors and are under no obligation to adhere to its content. The White House has already withdrawn from the Paris climate accord, and President Trump chose to skip the climate-change session at the recent G7 meeting in Quebec. Continued fealty to the Obama-era MOU runs counter to the president's goal of American global energy dominance, which is anchored to our abundance of oil, natural gas, and coal. The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans. Even if the MOU is "non-binding," so, too, are the commitments all parties agreed to under the Paris climate accord.  But recognizing the threat the Paris accord posed to U.S. energy security, the Trump White House wisely walked away from it. The UNEP-EPA memorandum is little more than an implementation tool of the Paris agreement and should suffer the same fate. Both are part of what is, at its core, a decidedly anti-American agenda. Bonner R. Cohen, Ph.D, is a senior policy analyst with the Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow (CFACT). The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	True
790	Yahoo News	left_center_bias	2017-06-01	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change, the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities."	Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreement's goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	Rising sea levels endanger heavily populated cities such as New York, San Francisco, New Orleans and Miami, and are predicted to cause 13.1 million Americans to relocate from coastal areas by 2100.	The group is unsure exactly when the rapidly growing crack will cause Ice Shelf C to break free from Antarctica, but believes that the rift has now reached a region of soft ice and that there is very little holding the ice shelf together."	"The ice is already floating, so when the fracture breaks all the way through, it will simply start to drift away."		Massive Crack in Antarctic Ice Shelf Grows 11 Miles in 6 Days, Potentially Creating World's Largest Iceberg An aerial view of the Antarctic Peninsula's Larsen C ice shelf. According to NASA, IceBridge scientists measured the Larsen C fracture to be about 70 miles long, more than 300 feet wide and about a third of a mile deep. (Photo: John Sonntag/NASA via AP)In the six days before President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change, an enormous crack in an Antarctic ice shelf grew 11 miles, according to a report by British Antarctic research group Project MIDAS. The crack, which is located in Larson Shelf C, leaves only eight miles of ice connecting what could be one of the world's largest recorded icebergs to Antarctica. When it eventually breaks free from the continent, the resulting iceberg will measure 31,000 square miles, represent 10 percent of the ice shelf's original mass and be larger than the state of Rhode Island. The growth spurt between May 25 and May 31 was the largest they have observed since January, Project MIDAS says, and the inevitable splintering of Ice Shelf C will drastically alter the landscape of the continent and will make the ice that remains less stable. The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change, the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities." hen [ice shelves] disappear, ice can flow faster from the land to the ocean and contribute more quickly to sea level rise," Adrian Luckman and Martin O'Leary of Project MIDAS wrote in February. Rising sea levels endanger heavily populated cities such as New York, San Francisco, New Orleans and Miami, and are predicted to cause 13.1 million Americans to relocate from coastal areas by 2100. Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreement's goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures. Project MIDAS expects the ice shelf to mimic the break up of Larson Ice Shelf B, which shattered over a period of two weeks in 2002." he calving event will probably be slow and graceful," the scientists of Project MIDAS wrote. "The ice is already floating, so when the fracture breaks all the way through, it will simply start to drift away." The group is unsure exactly when the rapidly growing crack will cause Ice Shelf C to break free from Antarctica, but believes that the rift has now reached a region of soft ice and that there is very little holding the ice shelf together." e are watching with bated breath," the team wrote.	False
89	vox	left_bias	2019-09-03	Much of the discussion was shallow and uninformative, partly a consequence of having to split attention across 20 candidates.A forum format with one-on-one discussions with the candidates could better get at these distinctions, forcing candidates to make the affirmative case for their own policies rather than sniping at those from other candidates.	However, it remains to be seen if there is an audience with a seven-hour attention span for a single issue.	That a major television network would devote so much time to a single issue is a sign of how important climate change has become for Democrats and how successful activists have been in elevating the issue.	Climate change has rocketed up the list of concerns for primary voters, with some polls showing climate change as the number one issue and other indicating that strong majorities want robust climate action from the White House.	In the past few months, candidates have been steadily releasing their own visions for how to limit warming this century.		CNN is giving 2020 Democrats 7 hours to talk about climate change CNN will host a seven-hour marathon of interviews with 10 presidential candidates about climate change on Wednesday beginning at 5 pm Eastern as part of its climate crisis town hall. A live stream of the town hall will air on CNN. com. You can also stream it via CNN apps on iOS, Android, Apple TV, Roku, Amazon Fire, Chromecast, and Android TV. The forum will also be broadcast on SiriusXM Channels 116, 454, 795, and the Westwood One Radio Network. Here is the format:The audience will be composed of selected Democrats, independents, and stakeholders. No public tickets will be issued. That a major television network would devote so much time to a single issue is a sign of how important climate change has become for Democrats and how successful activists have been in elevating the issue. Climate change has rocketed up the list of concerns for primary voters, with some polls showing climate change as the number one issue and other indicating that strong majorities want robust climate action from the White House. Activists groups like the Sunrise Movement have refused to let the Democratic National Committee ignore the issue, holding sit-ins outside their headquarters to demand a climate debate. The DNC responded that it will not hold a climate change debate for 2020 presidential contenders, nor will it allow candidates to attend a third-party debate. But CNN and MSNBC have found a loophole in the rules that still permits candidates to attend televised forums and town halls. CNN did not respond to requests for comment. MSNBC's climate forum is scheduled for September 19 and 20. In the past few months, candidates have been steadily releasing their own visions for how to limit warming this century. Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, who made climate change the centerpiece of his presidential campaign and put out the most comprehensive policy agenda, is now out of the race, giving other candidates some room to distinguish themselves on the issue. Several candidates, including Booker, Buttigieg, and Harris, are issuing new climate plans this week. For the most part, the Democratic presidential contenders agree that climate change demands a serious policy response and that the US needs to become carbon neutral by roughly the middle of the century. And indeed many have voiced support for the Green New Deal and most have pledged to refuse donations from the fossil fuel industry. The main differences among the candidates lie in how much political capital they intend to expend on fighting climate change and what they would do with executive authority. The town hall will give them an opportunity to present their plans in greater detail, and with more nuance. In the prior two rounds of presidential debates spanning more than eight hours, climate change received just 35 minutes of airtime. Much of the discussion was shallow and uninformative, partly a consequence of having to split attention across 20 candidates.A forum format with one-on-one discussions with the candidates could better get at these distinctions, forcing candidates to make the affirmative case for their own policies rather than sniping at those from other candidates. On the other hand, a candidate in the hot seat won't receive any direct challenges from their opponents. It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates, like what executive orders they would sign, how high climate change ranks as a priority, and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy. (Vox's David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.)CNN's climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often-weedy details of climate policy. However, it remains to be seen if there is an audience with a seven-hour attention span for a single issue. And there's always the risk that it could devolve into rote recitals of platitudes. Here's to hoping we learn something new.	True
334	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-08-14	Instead, activists focus on global warming, arguing human-caused warming has expanded wildfire season due to longer hotter, drier conditions in the western states.	Randi Spivak, public lands program director at the Center for Biological Diversity, said the administration is missing the main issue by being dismissive of climate change's effect on the fires."	limate change creates drought, high wind conditions, low humidity.	"The long-term safety of our communities relies on reducing carbon pollution."	But Zinke is correct that environmental litigation has kept federal agencies, including the Interior Department and U.S. Forest Service, from thinning, clearing debris and conducting prescribed burns to keep forest growth in check.A 2014 study published in the Journal of Forestry found "[v]egetative management, or logging projects continued to be the dominant type of management activity involved in Forest Service land management litigation, representing nearly three times more cases than any other type of management activity."	he story can't be a simply that warming is increasing the numbers of wildfires in California because the number of fires is declining. <sep> Many experts also see global warming as a factor in the rise of fires, but admit the relationship is more complicated than the media lets on." <sep> The service's plan that got overturned included getting "fire conditions toward historical range of variability to reduce wildland fire risk, improve wildlife habitat" through "mechanical thinning, harvest and prescribed burning." <sep> Name calling and finger pointing won't change the truth that climate change is exacerbating wildfires," echoed the Sierra Club's Athan Manuel. <sep> At the same time, these groups often oppose efforts to clear forests of debris and dead wood that fuel fires when hot, dry weather sets in every year." <sep> Zinke is taking the conversation away from global warming and bringing it back to land management, including the litigation and environmental laws that keep officials from actively managing the forests. <sep> In California, for example, humans caused 95 percent of all wildfires, with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem. <sep> Most wildfires are caused by humans, mostly unintentionally. <sep> The former Montana congressman blamed "litigation from radical environmentalists who would rather see forests and communities burn than see a logger in the woods," in a USA Today op-ed published Wednesday. <sep> This has to do with active forest management." <sep> And area burned has not been increasing either," University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Mass wrote in a recent blog post. <sep> ou can thin all you want till the cows come home but fire will overtake that," Spivak said, adding "what is misleading is people like Zinke and other people who refuse to talk about climate change and how we need to tackle that." <sep> Environmentalists have obviously not taken kindly to Zinke's remarks, but are particularly incensed by his dismissal of global warming as a driver of catastrophic wildfires. <sep> 	Ryan Zinke Shifts The Wildfire Debate From Global Warming To Anti-Logging 'Environmental Terrorists' Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke spent the last week targeting environmental groups that have for years opposed activities, like logging and thinning, to reduce the risks of catastrophic wildfires on federal lands. The former Montana congressman blamed "litigation from radical environmentalists who would rather see forests and communities burn than see a logger in the woods," in a USA Today op-ed published Wednesday. Zinke also called out "extreme environmentalists" in an interview with KCRA that aired Sunday. The day before that, Zinke lambasted "environmental terrorists groups that have not allowed public access, that refuse to allow harvest of timber" in an interview with Breitbart Radio. Deadly wildfires have consumed over 1 million acres in West Coast states, damaging structures and forcing thousands to flee their homes. The recent death of a firefighter battling the nearly 350,000-acre Mendocino Complex Fire brings the death toll to six for this season. So what's the point of attacking environmentalists? Zinke is taking the conversation away from global warming and bringing it back to land management, including the litigation and environmental laws that keep officials from actively managing the forests. Instead, activists focus on global warming, arguing human-caused warming has expanded wildfire season due to longer hotter, drier conditions in the western states. At the same time, these groups often oppose efforts to clear forests of debris and dead wood that fuel fires when hot, dry weather sets in every year." 've heard the climate change argument back and forth," Zinke told the Sacramento-based KCRA. "This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management." (RELATED: California's Biggest Utility Continues To Blame Global Warming For Wildfires Started By Its Own Power Lines)Wildfire experts tend to see land management and urban growth as prime drivers of wildfires. Many experts also see global warming as a factor in the rise of fires, but admit the relationship is more complicated than the media lets on." he story can't be a simply that warming is increasing the numbers of wildfires in California because the number of fires is declining. And area burned has not been increasing either," University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Mass wrote in a recent blog post. In fact, the recent National Climate Assessment special report gave "low to medium confidence for a detectable human climate change contribution in the western United States based on existing studies." Most wildfires are caused by humans, mostly unintentionally. Sparks from vehicles or equipment, power lines, arson and cigarettes are some of the ways humans cause massive blazes. Lightning is the cause of wildfires humans don't spark. In California, for example, humans caused 95 percent of all wildfires, with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem. Research also shows that wildfire season has primarily grown from population growth in fire-prone areas, increasing the chances of a fire-causing spark. Environmentalists have obviously not taken kindly to Zinke's remarks, but are particularly incensed by his dismissal of global warming as a driver of catastrophic wildfires. Randi Spivak, public lands program director at the Center for Biological Diversity, said the administration is missing the main issue by being dismissive of climate change's effect on the fires." limate change creates drought, high wind conditions, low humidity. Fire creates its own weather," Randi Spivak, the public lands director at the Center for Biological Diversity, told The Hill." ou can thin all you want till the cows come home but fire will overtake that," Spivak said, adding "what is misleading is people like Zinke and other people who refuse to talk about climate change and how we need to tackle that." Name calling and finger pointing won't change the truth that climate change is exacerbating wildfires," echoed the Sierra Club's Athan Manuel. "The long-term safety of our communities relies on reducing carbon pollution." Zinke actually did say fire season had gotten longer and temperatures had warmed, but added that "doesn't relieve you of the responsibility to remove the dead and dying timber and manage our forests so you don't have these catastrophic burns." But Zinke is correct that environmental litigation has kept federal agencies, including the Interior Department and U.S. Forest Service, from thinning, clearing debris and conducting prescribed burns to keep forest growth in check.A 2014 study published in the Journal of Forestry found "[v]egetative management, or logging projects continued to be the dominant type of management activity involved in Forest Service land management litigation, representing nearly three times more cases than any other type of management activity." The Forest Service was found more likely to lose cases "where plaintiffs advocated for less resource use," particularly in the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals where the agency won less than half its cases. In fact, the 9th Circuit on Monday overturned a Forest Service plan for part of Idaho's Payette National Forest. The judge sided with environmental groups and ruled "renders the Project inconsistent with the desired vegetative conditions set forth in the Payette Forest Plan" from 2003. The service's plan that got overturned included getting "fire conditions toward historical range of variability to reduce wildland fire risk, improve wildlife habitat" through "mechanical thinning, harvest and prescribed burning."	True
223	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-11-06	Prof Smith also points out that "while India is largely reactive, Beijing tends to be more proactive and preventative to try to stop the problems from happening in the first place".	In this episode, the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning," assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC."	And of course it's the elderly who suffer, the very young and people with pre-existing respiratory illnesses like or heart problems."	There's the advice to stay indoors, to reduce physical exercise and to wear a mask - but in many poorer parts of the world, none of these options really work for regular people."	That's one thing that China has tackled.	But the city's situation is made worse by the colder winter air which is more stagnant, trapping the pollutants in place. <sep> And you can't underestimate how important agricultural burning is - even though people often think only of cars and heavy industry as the causes." <sep> As India's north continues to struggle with extreme pollution levels, the story has put a fresh spotlight on air quality in cities across Asia. <sep> The result is then classified on a scale from good to hazardous." <sep> But they certainly indicate an overall trend.• The fight against air pollution in three global citiesWhy is India worse off than China?Pollution in urban areas is usually a mix of different factors - mostly traffic, fossil fuel burning power plants and heavy industries. <sep> The longer the exposure, the greater the risks. <sep> And the ways to protect oneself are limited. <sep> But it's not always been like that. <sep> She explains that even a short exposure to the unhealthy or worse pollution levels can trigger an asthma attack or increase the risk of a stroke. <sep> Some people complain about irritation to the eyes, to the throat, exacerbations of wheeze and asthma symptoms. <sep> 	Why is India's pollution much worse than China's? As India's north continues to struggle with extreme pollution levels, the story has put a fresh spotlight on air quality in cities across Asia. Beijing has long been notorious for its smog - but statistics show that India, Pakistan and Bangladesh have worse air by far. So why is South Asia so much more polluted?Of the world's most polluted 30 cities, 22 are in India, according to research by IQ AirVisual, a Swiss-based group that gathers air-quality data globally, and Greenpeace. The remaining eight cities are all in Pakistan, Bangladesh and China - but the list doesn't include Beijing, which comes in at number 122. Just looking at global capitals, it's also Asian cities that top the ranking. Looking at overall countries, it's Bangladesh that has the worst air, followed by Pakistan and then India. All these rankings are based on average air quality per year. As these countries have very different densities of measuring stations and transparency of data, the statistics have to be read with a degree of caution. But they certainly indicate an overall trend.• The fight against air pollution in three global citiesWhy is India worse off than China?Pollution in urban areas is usually a mix of different factors - mostly traffic, fossil fuel burning power plants and heavy industries. What differentiates China from India is that in the latter, there is still a lot of burning of agricultural stubble when farmers want to clear their fields. The burning usually takes place in autumn." In this episode, the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning," assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC." That's one thing that China has tackled. All agricultural burning has been banned, full stop."A global overview for fires and thermal abnormalities is made available by Nasa, and allows users to track developments over past days and weeks. The area north-west of Delhi shows a highly unusual concentration of fires, Prof Smith points out." And you can't underestimate how important agricultural burning is - even though people often think only of cars and heavy industry as the causes." In the wake of the pollution spike, India's Supreme Court ordered a stop to stubble burning in the states around Delhi. But the city's situation is made worse by the colder winter air which is more stagnant, trapping the pollutants in place. Prof Smith also points out that "while India is largely reactive, Beijing tends to be more proactive and preventative to try to stop the problems from happening in the first place". What does pollution feel like?Pollution levels are categorised by measuring the levels of dangerous particles in the air. The result is then classified on a scale from good to hazardous." The effect of pollution is different for every person," explains Dr Christine Cowie of the University of New South Wales." Some people complain about irritation to the eyes, to the throat, exacerbations of wheeze and asthma symptoms. Coughing is certainly also a very common symptom - even in non-asthmatic people." And of course it's the elderly who suffer, the very young and people with pre-existing respiratory illnesses like or heart problems." She explains that even a short exposure to the unhealthy or worse pollution levels can trigger an asthma attack or increase the risk of a stroke. The longer the exposure, the greater the risks. And the ways to protect oneself are limited. There's the advice to stay indoors, to reduce physical exercise and to wear a mask - but in many poorer parts of the world, none of these options really work for regular people." It is toxic air," says David Taylor, professor of tropical environmental change at the National University of Singapore." It must be very uncomfortable - especially if you're having to work outside and if you're having to do jobs that require quite a lot of energy." You feel like it's hard to breathe," agrees Prof Smith." It's like doing hardcore exercise when you just take a walk outside. And depending on the kind of pollution, you can of course also smell it in the air." How does it compare to Europe or the US?Today, pollution levels in Europe, Australia and the US are significantly lower than the extreme readings that India has experienced in the past few days. But it's not always been like that. London, for instance, was notorious for its pollution during much of the 19th and early 20th centuries. As late as 1952, the so-called Great Smog covered London with a thick toxic layer of pollution, bringing the city almost to a standstill for days, not unlike the situation in Delhi now. It's thought to have resulted in thousands of deaths. While London experienced a different mix of pollutants, "it probably wasn't far off what's currently happening in Delhi," says Mr Taylor. Back then, power stations along the Thames were major polluters of the British capital. In fact - much of what we know today about the health impact of air pollution dates back to the experiences of the London smog during those years.	True
876	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-05	n a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical, cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity, it is necessary to recall the values ​​of custody of creation, the preferential option for the poor, and the peace that is built in everyday life, including with attention to the care of the common home," she said.	The politically incorrect gift highlighted the cost-effectiveness and ready availability of fossil fuels, which were responsible for powering the industrial revolution throughout the developed world.	In that text, Francis wrote of an "urgent need" to take steps leading to the substitution of fossil fuels with alternative energy sources.	The Mayor of Assisi, Stefania Proietti, indicated the city's extensive olive groves as an effective tool for "mitigating climate change" because of the tree's ability to absorb the large quantities of carbon dioxide it needs in order to grow and produce olives."	"Their leadership is launching a path that the World Bank and its financial organs should follow.		Catholic Institutions Make Record Divestment from Fossil Fuel Holdings Italian prime minister, Paolo Gentiloni, visited Assisi Wednesday to commemorate the feast of Italy's patron St. Francis, in conjunction with the town's announcement it was divesting itself of all oil, coal and gas holdings in a gesture aimed against commonly cited causes of manmade global warming. The Franciscan monasterial complex in Assisi, the spiritual home of the Franciscan friars throughout the world, is among the 40 Catholic institutions and organizations jointly announcing their adherence to an international ecological campaign calling for the disinvestment from all fossil fuels in the hopes of combatting climate change. The Mayor of Assisi, Stefania Proietti, indicated the city's extensive olive groves as an effective tool for "mitigating climate change" because of the tree's ability to absorb the large quantities of carbon dioxide it needs in order to grow and produce olives." n a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical, cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity, it is necessary to recall the values ​​of custody of creation, the preferential option for the poor, and the peace that is built in everyday life, including with attention to the care of the common home," she said. The Assisi diocese joined the dioceses of Caserta and Gubbio in this symbolic gesture, along with dozens of other Catholic organizations throughout the world, such as the Archdiocese of Cape Town, the Belgian bishops conference, the German Bank for Church and Caritas. In this new wave of "ethical investing," the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed, but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record. Coordinating these efforts is the World Catholic Climate Change Movement, which in January sponsored the first world conference on fossil fuel divestment from a Catholic perspective at Rome's Pontifical Lateran University." he moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy," said Tomás Insua, the director of the Movement. "Their leadership is launching a path that the World Bank and its financial organs should follow. Considering that the World Bank is meeting these days in Washington, we hope its leaders will notice that the fossil-free movement has grown and is getting stronger." Christiana Figueres, the former UN climate tsar who helped negotiate the Paris climate accord, lauded the move as "a further sign we are on the way to achieving our collective mission"."  hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit, because while this decision makes smart financial sense, acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative," she said. Earlier this year, Pope Francis momentarily departed from his denunciation of fossil fuels, offering a large donation of tons of cost-effective "fuel briquettes" to heat the homes of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Ukraine. As part of the "Pope for Ukraine" initiative, Francis donated more than 2.5 tons of fuel per displaced family cared for by the parish of the Holy Theotokos in the village of Vilcha. The combustible fuel briquettes reportedly were sufficient to heat the homes and apartments of more than a hundred resettled families throughout the heating season and into the coming winter as well. The politically incorrect gift highlighted the cost-effectiveness and ready availability of fossil fuels, which were responsible for powering the industrial revolution throughout the developed world. Pope Francis has been a vocal advocate of clean, renewable energy and the reduction of carbon emissions. His groundbreaking 2015 encyclical letter, Laudato Si, on care for the environment was the first teaching letter of its sort in the history of the Catholic Church. In that text, Francis wrote of an "urgent need" to take steps leading to the substitution of fossil fuels with alternative energy sources.	True
857	RT	questionable_source	2017-10-27	The disposal of radioactive waste at Hanford has been plagued with problems.	However, WRPS did not report the discharges for nearly a month, and a notification from the Department of Ecology shows the company only made the report days after KING emailed WRPS, federal and state officials, and the Environmental Crimes Unit of the state Office of the Attorney General about the incident."	Hanford has since become the most contaminated spot in the Western Hemisphere, prompting a multi-billion dollar clean-up process that isn't expected to be completed until 2060."	However, after WRPS did a radiological survey and identified beta and gamma radioactive contamination, they removed the contaminated soil and surrounding debris, which can no longer be tested by investigators.	This is the kind of thing that caused Hanford to be the most contaminated place in the Western Hemisphere in the first place.	he soils under Hanford are extensively contaminated over a broad, broad area. <sep> Locals said that the site occasionally "burps" radiation, which has led to a number of employees developing serious medical conditions over the years. <sep> 	Video shows workers at Hanford illegally dumping radioactive water Investigators are looking into the Hanford nuclear facility in Washington state, after contractors were filmed dumping radiation-affected water and later tried to bury the evidence at the site of one of the largest nuclear cleanup efforts in the world. Several videos obtained by Seattle's KING-TV show workers at the Hanford facility's Plutonium Finishing Plant (PFP) dumping liquids from large metal containers that are labeled "Caution: radioactive materials." In nearly 25 years of working here I've never seen anything like that," a Hanford worker told KING. The workers are employed by Washington River Protection Solutions (WRPS), the organization responsible for cleaning approximately 53 million gallons of high-level radioactive and chemical waste stored in the containers at Hanford. The facility dates back to the Manhattan Project in the 1940s. For decades, it produced the majority of the plutonium for the US nuclear weapons arsenal. In 1988, production stopped and the site became a burying ground for radioactive waste. Hanford has since become the most contaminated spot in the Western Hemisphere, prompting a multi-billion dollar clean-up process that isn't expected to be completed until 2060." he soils under Hanford are extensively contaminated over a broad, broad area. The one thing you don't want to do is create more waste sites," said Dirk Dunning, a chemical engineer and Hanford expert. WRPS told state investigators that workers dumped around 15 gallons of potentially toxic water on August 15 and 200 gallons on August 17, according to a document from the Department of Ecology. Washington law makes it a gross misdemeanor to discharge pollutants into the water or soil. The company was also required to report any discharge of toxic waste to the Department of Ecology within 24 hours. However, WRPS did not report the discharges for nearly a month, and a notification from the Department of Ecology shows the company only made the report days after KING emailed WRPS, federal and state officials, and the Environmental Crimes Unit of the state Office of the Attorney General about the incident." hey knew it was wrong (to dump the liquids) but they did it anyway. They were hoping no one would question it. They definitely knew it should have been reported," a WRPS employee said. WRPS had been tasked with digging up 18 underground nuclear waste hoses and putting them in containers, which would then be buried in a nuclear waste dump at the facility. When workers found one of their containers filled with rainwater, they decided to dump it onto the ground rather than testing the water or transferring it to new containers.A contract shows the company would earn $58,333 for each hose that was removed, for a total of more than $1 million dollars, if they finished the project by September 30. WRPS dumped the toxic liquid in order to meet their deadline, said Tom Carpenter, executive director at Hanford Challenge, a watchdog organization working to keep contractors working at the facility accountable." hey are here for the money and that's it," Carpenter told KING. "This fee structure ignores human nature, which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught." The Department of Ecology has launched an investigation and has already been to the site to take soil samples to check for chemicals such as arsenic, lead and fluorene at the first dumping site. However, after WRPS did a radiological survey and identified beta and gamma radioactive contamination, they removed the contaminated soil and surrounding debris, which can no longer be tested by investigators. The disposal of radioactive waste at Hanford has been plagued with problems. RT visited the site last year, after workers were evacuated from the facility due to a leak of thousands of gallons of toxic waste. Locals said that the site occasionally "burps" radiation, which has led to a number of employees developing serious medical conditions over the years. In August, the company tested more than 300 workers, and found 20 percent tested positive for radiation contamination. The Department of Energy estimates that 444 billion gallons of radioactive material and chemical waste were discharged onto the grounds of the facility and into the Columbia River in the first 50 years since the facility opened. Dumping at the site without a permit became illegal after the nonprofit advocacy group Heart of America Northwest sued the Department of Energy in 1993. After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site, state Representative Gerry Pollet, who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest, called their actions "outrageous." This is the kind of thing that caused Hanford to be the most contaminated place in the Western Hemisphere in the first place. I am shocked to see something like this in 2017," Pollet said." t's a crime. I'm convinced by looking at this that you're witnessing a criminal violation of several statues, not just one."	False
250	rt	questionable_source	2019-05-19	The following year, Republican Senator John Chafee held Senate climate hearings warning of the "serious problem" and featuring an expert explaining that 'significant' warming could happen within 5-15 years.	Biden has been criticized for reportedly planning a 'middle ground' approach to climate policy that is accused of lacking urgency and not going far enough.	In 1987, Biden delivered a Senate speech warning of the dangers of global warming, and his Global Climate Protection Act called for setting up a task force to plan to tackle the issue.	While he is the first to have a climate bill passed, he certainly isn't the first politician to raise the alarm about climate change, let alone have 'started' the whole thing.	Social media users were quick to criticize Biden's response, with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change, and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didn't really work out so well.		Joe Biden mocked for claiming to have started the climate change movement (VIDEO) Joe Biden has been roundly mocked on Twitter after making the unlikely claim to a young activist appealing for a presidential debate on climate change that he kicked-off the whole global warming movement back in the late 1980s.A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group. Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished, asking, "By the way, did you know I'm the guy who did all this? Read 'Real Clear Politics' – it will tell you about how I started this whole thing back in 1987 – climate change." Social media users were quick to criticize Biden's response, with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change, and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didn't really work out so well. Biden has repeatedly boasted of his 80's climate change concern, telling voters he was the first to introduce a climate bill. In 1987, Biden delivered a Senate speech warning of the dangers of global warming, and his Global Climate Protection Act called for setting up a task force to plan to tackle the issue. While he is the first to have a climate bill passed, he certainly isn't the first politician to raise the alarm about climate change, let alone have 'started' the whole thing. Congressman Al Gore held House hearings on climate change in 1976, and as a senator introduced a resolution calling for a research program into greenhouse gas emissions in 1985. The following year, Republican Senator John Chafee held Senate climate hearings warning of the "serious problem" and featuring an expert explaining that 'significant' warming could happen within 5-15 years. Biden has been criticized for reportedly planning a 'middle ground' approach to climate policy that is accused of lacking urgency and not going far enough. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
97	vox	left_bias	2019-03-29	Each of these impacts independently suggests that we are currently allowing too much air pollution, and they also cry out for more research that attempts to assess the long-term cumulative impact of pollutants that appear to induce cognitive problems throughout the life cycle.	But public health researchers are aware of the limits of the data available and use matching, statistical controls, and other standard techniques to try to get a clearer picture of what's going on.	The question of exactly how much we are under-regulating particulates seems somewhat open to me, but the sign of the error is very clear.	One is that for decades the EPA has been regulating various sources of particulate emissions and the science around how harmful they are plays a role in driving how strict those regulations become.	The other is that particulate emissions play a key role in the bureaucratic politics of climate change.	In addition to killing small numbers of people, air pollution harms large numbers of people in small but meaningful ways:This is an emerging field of study, and it would obviously benefit from some further inquiry. <sep> In other words, the consequences of rolling back the war on soot could be substantially worse than the mortality impacts alone imply. <sep> Because carbon dioxide emissions are global and the consequences of climate change are also global, it is generally hard to demonstrate that cutting a given source of greenhouse gas emissions will have large benefits to Americans. <sep> Economists, like public health researchers, are limited by their inability to deliberately poison people in order to study the impact of the poisoning. <sep> This is critically important for two main reasons. <sep> It's true, of course, that you don't want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it. <sep> But most regulations that reduce carbon emissions also reduce much more localized soot — and taking into account the fact that soot has a marked tendency to kill people who live nearby the emissions sources is important to making the cost-benefit analysis math work. <sep> Tony Cox, an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPA's Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee, argues that the EPA's agency's current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor. <sep> Chan School of Public Health, writes with researcher Gretchen Goldman in a new Science essay on the subject, this loads the dice against demonstrating harms, because "randomized control trials are not possible (or ethical) when studying environmental hazards." <sep> 	Trump EPA appointees want more air pollution — that's a very bad idea Climate change garners most of the headlines, but the Trump administration is pushing a much larger and broader pro-pollution agenda whose latest manifestation is a push at the EPA to overturn a long-established scientific consensus that fine particulate pollution (colloquially "soot") kills people. This is critically important for two main reasons. One is that for decades the EPA has been regulating various sources of particulate emissions and the science around how harmful they are plays a role in driving how strict those regulations become. The other is that particulate emissions play a key role in the bureaucratic politics of climate change. Because carbon dioxide emissions are global and the consequences of climate change are also global, it is generally hard to demonstrate that cutting a given source of greenhouse gas emissions will have large benefits to Americans. But most regulations that reduce carbon emissions also reduce much more localized soot — and taking into account the fact that soot has a marked tendency to kill people who live nearby the emissions sources is important to making the cost-benefit analysis math work. Tony Cox, an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPA's Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee, argues that the EPA's agency's current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor. He wants to abandon the current "weight of the evidence" standards that allows for a wide range of evidence to be considered, with credibility weighted according to the quality of study design, in favor of a very narrow class of studies that employ "manipulative causation" methods. But as Francesca Dominici, a biostatistician at Harvard's T.H. Chan School of Public Health, writes with researcher Gretchen Goldman in a new Science essay on the subject, this loads the dice against demonstrating harms, because "randomized control trials are not possible (or ethical) when studying environmental hazards." In other words, you can't get a group of volunteers together and then randomly assign half of them to have the air they breathe be deliberately poisoned just to see how bad the poison is. You have to rely on ways of exploiting random variation through methods like observational data, time series, and quasi-experiments. It's true, of course, that you don't want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it. But public health researchers are aware of the limits of the data available and use matching, statistical controls, and other standard techniques to try to get a clearer picture of what's going on. Barring all that evidence would, as Dominic writes, "place a nearly unattainable burden of proof on the scientific community" and totally undermine the EPA's legal mandate to protect vulnerable people. Both the public health research and the EPA debate are largely focused on the question of soot's ability to kill people (through, e.g., asthma), but there's a big emerging set of empirical economics studies suggesting that fine particulates have a wider range of adverse cognitive impacts and are significantly underrated. In other words, the consequences of rolling back the war on soot could be substantially worse than the mortality impacts alone imply. Economists, like public health researchers, are limited by their inability to deliberately poison people in order to study the impact of the poisoning. Consequently, none of the studies I've read on particulate pollution and cognitive impairment quite reaches "gold standard" levels of scientific evidence. But there are, instead, lots of quasi-experiments and statistical matching studies, and they all find that air pollution is worse than we thought. In addition to killing small numbers of people, air pollution harms large numbers of people in small but meaningful ways:This is an emerging field of study, and it would obviously benefit from some further inquiry. That said, it appears to be the case that fine particulate pollution induces cognitive impairments in school children, white collar workers, blue collar workers, and the elderly — in other words, all people at all stages of life. Each of these impacts independently suggests that we are currently allowing too much air pollution, and they also cry out for more research that attempts to assess the long-term cumulative impact of pollutants that appear to induce cognitive problems throughout the life cycle. The question of exactly how much we are under-regulating particulates seems somewhat open to me, but the sign of the error is very clear.	True
732	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-09-09	Lochbaum said the NRC and the industry could do more to reduce vulnerability to flooding.	nuclear operators have taken steps to improve preparations for disasters since Fukushima.	Nuclear plants also hired more staff and stored equipment needed to deal with reactor problems."	At Fukushima in Japan, an earthquake and tsunami disrupted power supplies and caused the fuel in some units to meltdown."	Time will tell whether better proves good enough," said Dave Lochbaum, director of a watchdog group, the nuclear safety project, at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	Repairs cost about $90 million. <sep> An NRC study blamed degraded and missing flood seals that were not discovered during checks after Fukushima. <sep> 	Hurricane Irma poses toughest test for U.S. nuclear industry since Fukushima (Reuters) – Hurricane Irma will pose the toughest test yet for U.S. nuclear power plants since reactors strengthened their defenses against natural disasters following the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident in Japan in 2011. Irma was on course to hit South Florida early on Sunday after slamming Cuba as a Category 5 storm. It weakened to a Category 3 storm with maximum sustained winds of 130 miles per hour (210 km per hour) on Saturday, but was expected to strengthen before reaching Florida, bringing a storm surge to a state home to four coastal nuclear reactors. The National Hurricane Center's forecast track shows Irma making landfall on the southwest side of the Florida Peninsula, west of the two nuclear reactors at the Turkey Point plant. The operator, Florida Power & Light (FPL), has said it will shut Turkey Point well before hurricane-strength winds reach the plant. The reactors are about 30 miles (42 kilometers) south of Miami. FPL said it will also shut the other nuclear plant in Florida at St Lucie, which also has two reactors on a barrier island on the state's east coast, about 120 miles (193 km) north of Miami." e will shut the reactors down 24 hours before Category 1 force winds are forecast to hit," FPL Chief Executive Eric Silagy told a news conference. FPL said both Turkey Point and St Lucie were designed to withstand storms stronger than any ever recorded in the region and both plants are elevated 20 feet (6 meters) above sea level to protect against flooding and extreme storm surges. But South Miami Mayor Philip Stoddard said he was concerned about the potential for floods to damage power generators at Turkey Point, which in turn might threaten the ability of the plant to keep spent nuclear fuel rods cool. At Fukushima in Japan, an earthquake and tsunami disrupted power supplies and caused the fuel in some units to meltdown." he whole site is pretty well able to handle dangerous wind, the real problem from my perspective is water," Stoddard said. He said he was more worried about the nuclear waste than the reactors." he real question is can they keep the spent fuel cool." Peter Robbins, an FPL spokesman, said "Mayor Stoddard is wrong. Turkey Point is safe and is ready for Hurricane Irma."U.S. nuclear operators have taken steps to improve preparations for disasters since Fukushima. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) required plants to install portable pumps and generators to keep water moving over fuel rods and the spent fuel pool even if offsite power supply was lost. Nuclear plants also hired more staff and stored equipment needed to deal with reactor problems." hings are better today than in March 2011. Time will tell whether better proves good enough," said Dave Lochbaum, director of a watchdog group, the nuclear safety project, at the Union of Concerned Scientists. The NRC said it was posting more inspectors at the two Florida plants and was considering sending more inspectors to plants in Georgia and South Carolina should the storm head that way. The NRC said the plants should not be compromised by Irma's storm surge." he storm surge forecasts that we have seen so far do not challenge the sites' designs," said NRC spokesman Scott Burnell. Both Florida plants have previously weathered major storms. Turkey Point took a hit from Hurricane Andrew, a Category 5 storm, in 1992, damaging a smokestack at fossil fuel plant at the site. Repairs cost about $90 million. St Lucie withstood the back-to-back impact of Hurricanes Frances (Category 2) and Jeanne (Category 3) in 2004. FPL shut St Lucie last October as Hurricane Matthew skirted the Florida coast. Lochbaum said the NRC and the industry could do more to reduce vulnerability to flooding. In January 2014, about 50,000 gallons of rainwater leaked into the St Lucie plant after a heavy downpour. An NRC study blamed degraded and missing flood seals that were not discovered during checks after Fukushima. There is also spent nuclear fuel at the site of a third power plant in Florida which stopped operating in 2009. That is the Crystal River plant, owned by Duke Energy Corp. Duke is in the process of transferring used fuel from the spent fuel pool at the plant to dry cask storage as part of work to decommission the plant. Once in storage, the fuel no longer needs cooling. The NRC's Burnell said Duke has suspended work to transfer the rods ahead of Irma. He said the fuel was safe and the plant also has backup power, even though it has been shut for years. Irma is expected to disrupt much of Florida's power supply. FPL, the state's largest electric company, has warned Irma could cut service to about 4.1 million of its nearly 5 million customers. FPL is one of four large publicly traded utilities in Florida. Other natural disasters since Fukushima have shut some plants. An earthquake in Virginia in 2011 shut Dominion Energy Inc's North Anna plant for about 2-1/2 months, the time it took to complete a full damage inspection. That plant sustained no major damage. Hurricane Sandy in 2012 caused three reactors in the U.S. Northeast to shut but inflicted no serious damage.	True
765	Fusion	left_center_bias	2017-05-12	Rising temperatures – Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average – and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains.	Thinning glacier ice may cover a reasonable area but is particularly vulnerable to further warming and melting.	"The Colorado glaciers started melting before Montana's and while there are larger glaciers in the Pacific north-west that will hold on longer, the number vanishing will steadily grow until none are left."	The environmental conditions now experienced in the region are a marked departure from historical norms."	e hope that loss contributes towards a dialogue about what to do about it," he said.	Andrew Fountain, a geologist at Portland State, added: "While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US, it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale." <sep> Even when there is plenty of snow, as Montana experienced this winter, the increasing heat of spring and summer is melting it away more quickly. <sep> 	The contiguous U.S. will be glacier-free within decades thanks to global warming wikimedia commonsIt's now "inevitable" that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades, according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana. Warming temperatures have rapidly reduced the size of 39 named glaciers in Montana since 1966, according to comparisons released by the US Geological Survey (USGS) and Portland State University. Some have lost as much as 85% of their expanse over the past 50 years, with Glacier national park, site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers, set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades. Of the 150 glaciers that existed in the park in the late 19th century, only 26 remain. The disappearance of glaciers in Montana is part of a broader loss that will see all glaciers, defined as moving bodies of snow and ice larger than 25 acres, largely vanish from the lower 48 states of America by the mid point of the century, according to Dr Daniel Farge, lead USGS scientist." t's inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades," Farge said. "The Colorado glaciers started melting before Montana's and while there are larger glaciers in the Pacific north-west that will hold on longer, the number vanishing will steadily grow until none are left." Andrew Fountain, a geologist at Portland State, added: "While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US, it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale." Rising temperatures – Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average – and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains. Last year, scientists in Colorado found that the Arikaree glacier, which is likely more than 1,000 years old, has been thinning by around a metre (3.2ft) a year over the past decade and will vanish within 25 years.  Warming winters are bringing more rain, rather than glacier-forming snow, to Montana and other states. Even when there is plenty of snow, as Montana experienced this winter, the increasing heat of spring and summer is melting it away more quickly. Spring snow melts are now occurring at least two weeks earlier than they were in the 1960s. Scientists analyzed the extent of the 39 Montanan glaciers by studying aerial and satellite imagery stretching back to 1966. The latest data, from 2015, shows that there are now just 26 glaciers larger than 25 acres. The largest, Harrison glacier, is now 410 acres – a 19% decrease over the past 50 years. Others have declined by up to 85%. Glaciers have been in this stretch of the northern Rockies for around 7,000 years and the study of tree ring data and piles of rocks left behind by shifting glaciers show there were around 150 of the ice formations in the Glacier national park area in 1850. Most have now disappeared. Farge said glaciers started to shrink from around 1910 and then entered "rapid and continual" melting from the 1970s onwards. The environmental conditions now experienced in the region are a marked departure from historical norms." he glaciers have waxed and waned with different climate fluctuations but this is the first time they are heading for almost certain extinction," Farge said." his is the first time in 7,000 years they've experienced this temperature and precipitation. There's no hope for them to survive. We'd need a major reversal where it would get cooler, not just stop getting warmer. There's nothing to suggest that will happen." Farge said the decline of the glaciers outlined in the research is probably conservative as it focuses upon the extent of the glaciers, not the volume. Thinning glacier ice may cover a reasonable area but is particularly vulnerable to further warming and melting. Last year, 2.9m people visited Glacier national park. Future tourists will be confronted by a vista devoid of glaciers, a loss that Farge said will be "poignant"." e hope that loss contributes towards a dialogue about what to do about it," he said. "It's important that the data is out there and is being discussed." According to Nasa, the world's glaciers have lost around 400bn tons of ice per year since 1994, a decline that has impacted wildlife, increased wildfire risk in places and contributed to rapid sea level rise. This story was originally published by The Guardian US and is reproduced here as part of Climate Desk.	False
479	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-11-13	"These high-intensity fires can cause rapid and in some cases long-term changes in vegetation, making it more difficult for the ecosystem to recover."	Ms Schori of Cal Fire said that with wind-driven blazes like the Camp Fire, officials often have no choice but to wait for conditions to improve."	Keeping fires from starting in Western forests has caused fuel to accumulate "far beyond" historical levels."	In California, recent years have seen a combination of extremely high temperatures, strong winds, a long drought, and population growth causing lethal, fast-moving blazes.	And straying away from natural burning cycles has also contributed to the lethality of recent fires, Prof Peterson says.	The majority could be attributed to humans, though only 8% were caused by arson. <sep> "It should be noted that 2% of fires burn 98% of the area." <sep> According to Prof David Peterson of the University of Washington, a former senior researcher with the US Forest Service, fires in the region have not necessarily increased in frequency in the last 100 years - but the area affected has." <sep> Clearing out brush and flammable material from an area to create "firebreaks" is another way to achieve the same." <sep> Globally, the length of the wildfire season has already increased by nearly 19% between 1978 and 2013." <sep> Intentionally burning areas around a wildfire can help starve the blaze and control its direction. <sep> If you don't evacuate and it becomes a rescue situation, then our firefighters are taken away from the firefight and moved to the rescue." <sep> There are never enough firefighters to combat a fire that's moving as fast as this was moving," she says." <sep> Sometimes, you do fight fire with fire. <sep> Fleeing in a vehicle is ideal as most wildfires cannot be outrun. <sep> You have to deploy your resources on each side [of the fire] and continue to construct lines. <sep> 	California wildfires: Key questions answered In the last year alone, California has seen catastrophic wildfires burn thousands of acres. On Tuesday, the ongoing Camp Fire in Northern California became the state's deadliest blaze in history. How do these deadly fires start, and why is California so susceptible?Officials define wildfires, or wildland fires, as any fire occurring on undeveloped land. Forest fires are uncontrolled wildfires burning in lands covered at least in part by timber or flammable vegetation. In nature, two things can spark wildfires: lava and lightning. According to the National Park Service, 90% of wildfires in the US are caused by humans - whether by unattended campfires, burning debris, cigarettes, or arson. About 2% of California's 2,816 wildfires in 2016 were caused by lightning, according to data from the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire). The majority could be attributed to humans, though only 8% were caused by arson. According to Prof David Peterson of the University of Washington, a former senior researcher with the US Forest Service, fires in the region have not necessarily increased in frequency in the last 100 years - but the area affected has." The area burned annually has been higher during the past 30 years or so," he told the BBC. "It should be noted that 2% of fires burn 98% of the area." In California, recent years have seen a combination of extremely high temperatures, strong winds, a long drought, and population growth causing lethal, fast-moving blazes. Last year, the state had over 9,500 wildfires that burned over a million acres, according to the National Interagency Fire Center, and had the highest number of homes and buildings lost in one state. And straying away from natural burning cycles has also contributed to the lethality of recent fires, Prof Peterson says. Keeping fires from starting in Western forests has caused fuel to accumulate "far beyond" historical levels." Therefore, when fires occur they can burn hotter," he says. "These high-intensity fires can cause rapid and in some cases long-term changes in vegetation, making it more difficult for the ecosystem to recover." Once evacuation orders are issued by local law enforcement, residents generally have hours to leave, Cal Fire information officer Kathleen Schori told the BBC." But in those initial stages of fire, you may have minutes," she added. Fleeing in a vehicle is ideal as most wildfires cannot be outrun. But the Camp Fire's especially rapid spread, fuelled by high winds, made the situation even more dangerous." This fire moved so fast - I don't think anybody did anything wrong," Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently." During the initial phases, it was burning 80 miles in an hour." She stressed the importance of following evacuation orders immediately, especially with fast-moving blazes." If you don't evacuate and it becomes a rescue situation, then our firefighters are taken away from the firefight and moved to the rescue." Sometimes, you do fight fire with fire. In addition to old-fashioned water and flame retardant (delivered from ground-level and above the flames by aircraft), sometimes firefighters have to burn more to quell the flames. Intentionally burning areas around a wildfire can help starve the blaze and control its direction. Clearing out brush and flammable material from an area to create "firebreaks" is another way to achieve the same." Ninety-eight percent of fires are small and/or suppressed quickly," Prof Peterson says. "The other 2% are very challenging when they get large, and are almost impossible to put out, at least until it rains." Ms Schori of Cal Fire said that with wind-driven blazes like the Camp Fire, officials often have no choice but to wait for conditions to improve." There are never enough firefighters to combat a fire that's moving as fast as this was moving," she says." You have to deploy your resources on each side [of the fire] and continue to construct lines. And when that wind stops, then you can safely get in front it." Prof Peterson says there is no hard evidence that climate change has affected US wildfires - yet." We expect that there will be significant effects in future decades as the climate continues to warm," he told the BBC.A warming climate, Prof Peterson explained, would increase the duration of the fire season, and more droughts would in turn create more wildfire fuel. Globally, the length of the wildfire season has already increased by nearly 19% between 1978 and 2013." By around 2050, fires may burn two to three times more area than they have historically." According to 2017 data from Verisk Analytics, 4.5 million US homes were in areas of high or extreme wildfire risk - and over 2 million of those homes were in California. Damage caused by wildfires has cost $5.1bn in the last decade, Verisk found. In California, homeowners who do not qualify for private insurance coverage can opt into a statewide pool, called the Fair Access to Insurance Requirements (FAIR) plan. FAIR is comprised of all property and casualty insurers in California and is not run by a state agency.	True
734	Shareblue	left_bias	2017-07-18	The fight for the environment is a fight for the secure future of human civilization, and Trump cannot stop that fight.	The passage of this bill is a rare bipartisan victory.	On Monday, the California state legislature passed a sweeping deal to extend the state's current cap and trade program until 2030.	California has been at the forefront of the climate change fight ever since Trump was elected.	California Democrats and Republicans unite to defy Trump with climate change bill Donald Trump has singlehandedly been working to set back U.S. climate policy 50 years.		California Democrats and Republicans unite to defy Trump with climate change bill Donald Trump has singlehandedly been working to set back U.S. climate policy 50 years. He outraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement. He fired scientists from government advisory positions. He signed a bill to let coal mines dump waste into streams. He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan, fuel economy standards for cars, offshore drilling restrictions, and solar tax credits. But at the state level, politicians are fighting back, and nowhere more so than in California. On Monday, the California state legislature passed a sweeping deal to extend the state's current cap and trade program until 2030. The law requires businesses to buy credits based on their volume of greenhouse pollution. The passage of this bill is a rare bipartisan victory. Democrats control both chambers of the California legislature, but the bill required a supermajority. Republicans cast the deciding votes, amid the endorsement of prominent California GOP politicians like former Gov. Pete Wilson. California has been at the forefront of the climate change fight ever since Trump was elected. Gov. Jerry Brown made news in December for telling Trump that if he scuttles climate research satellites, "California will launch its own damn satellites." More recently, Brown helped found the United States Climate Alliance, a group of state and local governments pledging to abide by the Paris climate agreement even after the federal government withdraws. So far, 10 states, including two with Republican governors, have joined, as well as several major cities. Even if Trump is willing to turn his back on our allies and our future to roll back the clock on environmental protection, states like California are standing up and assuming the mantle of leadership. The fight for the environment is a fight for the secure future of human civilization, and Trump cannot stop that fight.	True
290	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-12-12	In a speech the teenager also criticized governments for avoiding taking action to cut greenhouse gas emissions and 'not behaving as if we are in an emergency'.	Greta said: 'The biggest danger is not inaction; the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening, when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.	Veteran campaigners and scientists have welcomed her activism, including her combative speeches challenging world leaders to do more to stop global warming.	The protests begun in March when an extradition bill, now suspended, called for those facing trials to be sent to mainland China, which was seen as a threat to the region's autonomy.	'Minutes after his tweet, Thunberg changed her Twitter profile biography to read: 'A teenager working on her anger management problem.		Donald Trump Jr. criticizes Time for naming eco-warrior Greta Thunberg as its person of the year President Donald Trump's eldest son Don Jr. has criticized Time magazine for naming Greta Person of the Year 2019 in a mocking tweet. The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters, fighting for their lives and freedoms' - his father was also a finalist. Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote: 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'The 16-year-old Swedish face of climate-activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?' at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year, accusing them of failing the younger generation. An image of her stare at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme. Miss Thunberg was up against four other Time's finalists including anti-government Hong Kong protesters, U.S. house speaker Nancy Pelosi, the anonymous whistleblower who revealed Trump's phone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in July that may lead to his impeachment, and in ironically also Donald Trump. The young-activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk för klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year. The activist has drawn increasingly large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences over the past year and a half. Veteran campaigners and scientists have welcomed her activism, including her combative speeches challenging world leaders to do more to stop global warming. Time editor-in-chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show: 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year, coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'He confirmed she is the magazine's youngest ever choice. Malala Yousafzai was runner up in 2012, losing out to Barack Obama, aged 15.U.S. president last month signed legislation backing the Hong Kong protesters in their fight for democracy - which could be the reason for his son's backing. The protests begun in March when an extradition bill, now suspended, called for those facing trials to be sent to mainland China, which was seen as a threat to the region's autonomy. Thunberg has not responded to the criticism but retweeted Time magazine's cover featuring herself. Today President Donald Trump lashed out at 16-year-old global warming activist Greta Thunberg on Thursday and told her to 'chill,' as he called her Time magazine 'Person of the Year' award 'ridiculous.''Greta must work on her Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta, Chill!' Trump tweetedThe president was responding to Christian filmmaker Roma Downey, who tweeted the Time cover with the word 'Congrats.'Minutes after his tweet, Thunberg changed her Twitter profile biography to read: 'A teenager working on her anger management problem. Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend.'Thunberg was in Madrid on Wednesday, where she addressed negotiators at the U.N.'s COP25 climate talks. There she accused political and business leaders of polishing their images rather than taking aggressive action in the fight against climate change at the UN climate talks. In a speech the teenager also criticized governments for avoiding taking action to cut greenhouse gas emissions and 'not behaving as if we are in an emergency'. Greta said: 'The biggest danger is not inaction; the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening, when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'She said the science showed that, at the current rate of emissions, the world is set to use up the whole 'carbon budget' - the amount of pollution that can be put into the atmosphere and still keep global warming to 1.5C - in eight years.	False
665	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-08-08	Is man having an effect on it?'	Many lines of evidence demonstrate that human activities, especially emissions of greenhouse (heat-trapping) gases, are primarily responsible for recent observed climate changes."	The question should be, you know, just how much, and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?	Most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in," Perry said.	It concludes that temperatures in the U.S. have risen sharply, by 1.6 degrees Fahrenheit, over the last 150 years and that it is "extremely likely that most of the global mean temperature increase since 1951 was caused by human influence on climate."	"Thousands of studies conducted by tens of thousands of scientists around the world have documented changes in surface, atmospheric, and oceanic temperatures; melting glaciers; disappearing snow cover; shrinking sea ice; rising sea level; and an increase in atmospheric water vapor. <sep> The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members, who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward "energy dominance." <sep> "I mean, the fact is, this shouldn't be a debate about, 'Is the climate changing? <sep> 	Federal Scientists' Startling Climate Report Released Before Trump Can Bury It The New York Times published an unreleased draft of the report Monday. The 543-page report was written by scientists from 13 federal agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. It concludes that temperatures in the U.S. have risen sharply, by 1.6 degrees Fahrenheit, over the last 150 years and that it is "extremely likely that most of the global mean temperature increase since 1951 was caused by human influence on climate." Evidence for a changing climate abounds, from the top of the atmosphere to the depths of the oceans," the report states. "Thousands of studies conducted by tens of thousands of scientists around the world have documented changes in surface, atmospheric, and oceanic temperatures; melting glaciers; disappearing snow cover; shrinking sea ice; rising sea level; and an increase in atmospheric water vapor. Many lines of evidence demonstrate that human activities, especially emissions of greenhouse (heat-trapping) gases, are primarily responsible for recent observed climate changes." The report, completed this year and part of the National Climate Assessment, has already been approved by the National Academy of Sciences, according to the Times. Its release hinges on the Trump administration's approval, and one scientist who worked on the report told the Times that he and others feared the president would withhold it. Also, the frequency of extreme weather events, including heavy rain and heat waves, has increased and is very likely to continue to do so. And since 1880, global sea levels have risen 8 to 9 inches — roughly 3 of those inches since 1990 — with human activity playing a substantial role, according to the report. In a post to Twitter, Gavin Schmidt, a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be "shocking to those that think [climate change] is just a future problem." The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members, who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward "energy dominance." Since taking office, Trump — who famously called climate change "bullshit" and a Chinese "hoax" — has moved quickly to derail America's actions to combat climate change, including rolling back President Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, a policy limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. Trump has pegged himself as a savior of America's dying coal industry and has vowed to increase oil and gas production, opening now-protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to drilling. In June he announced plans to pull the U.S. out of the historic Paris Agreement on climate change ― the international accord in which nearly 200 countries committed to slashing carbon emissions in an effort to prevent global temperatures from increasing 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, the line scientists say the world must stay below to stave off the very worst effects of climate change. Meanwhile, his Cabinet members have refused to say whether Trump believes climate change is real and continue to question how much the scientific community understands about the threat and the role humans play in observed changes. In March, Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt told CNBC, "No, I would not agree that [carbon dioxide is] a primary contributor to the global warming that we see." And in June, Energy Secretary Rick Perry echoed Pruitt's comments, saying "no" when asked by CNBC whether he believes carbon dioxide "is the primary control knob for the temperature of the Earth and for climate." Most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in," Perry said. "I mean, the fact is, this shouldn't be a debate about, 'Is the climate changing? Is man having an effect on it?' Yeah, we are. The question should be, you know, just how much, and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?"Also in June, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said glaciers in Montana's Glacier National Park started melting "right after the end of the Ice Age" and that it has "been a consistent melt." He also dismissed the notion that government scientists can predict with certainty how much warming will occur by 2100 under a business-as-usual scenario.	True
840	Daily Mail	questionable_source	2017-08-23	Critics have railed against the Interior Department for moves seen as halting scientific growth.	'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry, pure and simple,' said Democratic Representative Raúl Grijalva of Arizona, ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, in a statement.	Birth defects were also reported in a 2011 study published in Science Daily.	'This came after a 2010 study in Science magazine reported an increase in mortality rates as well as an increase in incidences of lung cancer and kidney disease near where mountaintop mining is common.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining, research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years,' Bill Price, Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign, said in a statement.		Interior Department halts study on Appalachia coal mining The Trump administration has halted a study looking at the health risks of mountaintop removal coal mining. In a letter written on Friday, the Interior Department announced the shutdown of the study, which was started in 2016 under former President Barack Obama, while the department undergoes an agency-wide budgetary review. Scientists estimate at least 500 Appalachian mountaintops have undergone mountaintop removal mining, a form of surface mining that harvests coal deposits too thin to work from a coal mine. The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies, the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health. Ordered by the Obama administration, the $1million, two-year study looked to investigate mountaintop removal in West Virginia, Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee. An emphasis was placed on studying the 'effects from surface coal mining operations on air, surface water, groundwater, and drinking water quality and on ecologic communities and soil that could potentially lead to human health concerns.'This came after a 2010 study in Science magazine reported an increase in mortality rates as well as an increase in incidences of lung cancer and kidney disease near where mountaintop mining is common. Birth defects were also reported in a 2011 study published in Science Daily. Some suggest the move may be part of President Donald Trump's efforts to bring back coal. In February, he scrapped the Stream Protection Rule, a regulation to protect waterways from coal mining waste and promised to bring back coal mining jobs. Additionally, his proposed 2018 budget would cut funding for the Office of Surface Mining, which is responsible for protecting society and the environment from the adverse effects of surface coal mining operations. Critics have railed against the Interior Department for moves seen as halting scientific growth. Several science advisory boards were frozen earlier this year by Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke. And Interior Department climate scientist Joel Clement alleged that he and dozens of other scientists had been arbitrarily reassigned.'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining, research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years,' Bill Price, Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign, said in a statement.'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry, pure and simple,' said Democratic Representative Raúl Grijalva of Arizona, ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, in a statement.	False
691	Daily Kos	left_bias	2017-10-01	Deal with it later?	Because one cannot personally conceive of an alternative to growth does not mean that one does not exist.	DEATH BY PIN PRICKS, Water Lilies &amp; Boiling Water There must be a new approach to public policy development that makes "Earth First."	Like a Dooms Day asteroid, human over-population, pollution, logging, over-exploitation, consumption, land use changes and engineering projects have produced the planet's sixth great extinction of species.	Sustainability is NOT a myth – it is an under-represented, and too-often wrongfully rejected younger child; the one bearing truth to co-dependent addicted parents in deep denial over their multi-generational destruction of the natural environment.	Turn up the heat?Earth's Life Support Systems Failing. <sep> Environmental change is occurring so fast that small decisions made locally avalanche regionally (e.g. <sep> "There is clear and growing scientific evidence that we are on the verge of a major freshwater biodiversity crisis." <sep> The world has failed to slow the accelerating extinction crisis despite years of international effort. <sep> We must do more with less, and the rich must share or move out. <sep> Three well-known parables apply:One more stick with the pin? <sep> Developers, energy barons, other planet-killers and we, must settle for less and work together to plan and build a healthy sustainable community. <sep> How to Help, Where to find the ActionGet Corporations out of Government: movetoamend. <sep> What are our politicians doing that makes any positive difference? <sep> We must CONTROL land and resource value to discourage speculation, and eliminate or lessen the wide market swings due to nerves or manipulation. <sep> ozone layer destruction). <sep> We are in a life-threatening situation and must make fundamental and absolute changes without delay. <sep> The Economic Growth discussion is always the same: "highest and best value" (a misnomer if ever there was one – profits trump survival - pun intended). <sep> We must develop a mutually supportive community again. <sep> "Property," "economy," and "jobs" must serve "Earth First." <sep> Demand Party Platforms that respond to reality, justice, science and full democracy. <sep> It is hard to imagine a more important priority. <sep> We must impose firm, honest value on land and resources and discourage speculative over-inflation – speculation is not bad per se, but it is one of the easiest activities to exaggerate and corrupt. <sep> 	DEATH BY PIN PRICKS, Water Lilies &amp; Boiling Water There must be a new approach to public policy development that makes "Earth First." "Property," "economy," and "jobs" must serve "Earth First." The planning frame should be at least 100 years, possibly 1,000, NOT 25. Environmental change is occurring so fast that small decisions made locally avalanche regionally (e.g. downstream pollution), or even globally (e.g. ozone layer destruction). The Economic Growth discussion is always the same: "highest and best value" (a misnomer if ever there was one – profits trump survival - pun intended). Fat City is over, although many are still trying to milk it for the last bit of cream; we call these asshats "Vulture Capitalists," they feed off the dead and wounded). We must do more with less, and the rich must share or move out. We don't need more deadhead users and freeloaders. We must develop a mutually supportive community again. The business of government is the people's business; developers step to the rear. Legislators must renounce corporate campaign contributions as contrary to the public good. We must CONTROL land and resource value to discourage speculation, and eliminate or lessen the wide market swings due to nerves or manipulation. We must impose firm, honest value on land and resources and discourage speculative over-inflation – speculation is not bad per se, but it is one of the easiest activities to exaggerate and corrupt. We need a National Land Use Comprehensive Plan. Unlimited Growth is the ethos of a cancer cell, observes David Suzuki, noted biologist. Because one cannot personally conceive of an alternative to growth does not mean that one does not exist. Sustainability is NOT a myth – it is an under-represented, and too-often wrongfully rejected younger child; the one bearing truth to co-dependent addicted parents in deep denial over their multi-generational destruction of the natural environment. Three well-known parables apply:One more stick with the pin?  Deal with it later?  Turn up the heat?Earth's Life Support Systems Failing. The world has failed to slow the accelerating extinction crisis despite years of international effort. It is hard to imagine a more important priority. The biodiversity of life on Earth comprises the ecosystems that provide climate regulation, food,fiber, clean water and air. Like a Dooms Day asteroid, human over-population, pollution, logging, over-exploitation, consumption, land use changes and engineering projects have produced the planet's sixth great extinction of species. Freshwater Species that live in lakes and rivers are vanishing four to six times faster than anywhere else. "There is clear and growing scientific evidence that we are on the verge of a major freshwater biodiversity crisis." We are in a life-threatening situation and must make fundamental and absolute changes without delay. We cannot give "just a bit more" to Trump and his greedy followers. Spoiled children need discipline in order to live wholesome, productive lives. Developers, energy barons, other planet-killers and we, must settle for less and work together to plan and build a healthy sustainable community. We require teamwork to endure what is coming. We have no luxury to indulge selfish, ignorant behaviors. What are our politicians doing that makes any positive difference? Let us ask them. Demand Party Platforms that respond to reality, justice, science and full democracy. Demand to be treated like adults. How to Help, Where to find the ActionGet Corporations out of Government: movetoamend. orgBe Sure to VOTE, take a new registered progressive voter to the polls with you.	True
73	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-11-16	Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate-related disease."	And the situation is set to get even more acute as climate change increases the spread and frequency of infectious diseases such as malaria and dengue.	Human activity such as population (growth) and transport combined with climate change increases antibacterial resistance... and therefore the need for more pharmaceuticals."	As the global population grows and ages and prescribing rates continue to climb, that figure is set to hit 10 million annually by 2050 -- higher than the number of people dying from cancer."	Meds pose global environmental risk, experts warn...	More than 700,000 people already die each year from drug-resistant infections. <sep> Unless adequate measures are taken to manage the risks, pharmaceutical residues will increasingly be released into the environment as ageing populations, advances in healthcare, and intensification of meat and fish production spur the demand for pharmaceuticals worldwide," the report said. <sep> We're seeing constant engineering of new pharmaceuticals and seeing clinical practices evolve to include recommendations of earlier treatment and higher doses," said the lead report author Hannah Leckie. <sep> When animals and humans ingest medicines, up to 90 percent of active ingredients are excreted back into the environment. <sep> Many medicines are simply discarded -- in the United States alone an estimated one third of the four billion drugs prescribed each year ends up as waste. <sep> However there's still a lot we don't know about their occurence, and know even less about the concentrations we find." <sep> 	Meds pose global environmental risk, experts warn... There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health (AFP Photo/LOIC VENANCE)Paris (AFP) - Residues from billions of doses of antibiotics, painkillers and antidepressants pose a significant risk to freshwater ecosystems and the global food chain, a new analysis said Thursday. There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health. When animals and humans ingest medicines, up to 90 percent of active ingredients are excreted back into the environment. Many medicines are simply discarded -- in the United States alone an estimated one third of the four billion drugs prescribed each year ends up as waste. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) compared data on concentrations of pharmaceutical residue in water samples worldwide as well as prescribing trends and water purification regulations in various countries. One study cited in its report estimates that 10 percent of all pharmaceuticals are potentially harmful to the environment -- including hormones, painkillers and antidepressants. The OECD said that antibiotic use for livestock is predicted to rocket by more than two thirds in the next decade, stoking concerns over antibiotic resistance. Human prescriptions are also set to drastically increase, according to the report." We're seeing constant engineering of new pharmaceuticals and seeing clinical practices evolve to include recommendations of earlier treatment and higher doses," said the lead report author Hannah Leckie. Another study cited said "extremely high" concentrations of pharmaceutical products had already been detected in water ways in China, India, Israel, South Korea and the United States. In Britain alone, ethinyloestradiol, diclofenac, ibuprofen, propranolol and antibiotics are now present in the run-off of 890 wastewater treatment plants at high enough levels to cause "adverse environmental effects", according to another study." The residues of pharmaceuticals have been detected in surface and ground water across the world," said Leckie." However there's still a lot we don't know about their occurence, and know even less about the concentrations we find." More than 700,000 people already die each year from drug-resistant infections. As the global population grows and ages and prescribing rates continue to climb, that figure is set to hit 10 million annually by 2050 -- higher than the number of people dying from cancer." Unless adequate measures are taken to manage the risks, pharmaceutical residues will increasingly be released into the environment as ageing populations, advances in healthcare, and intensification of meat and fish production spur the demand for pharmaceuticals worldwide," the report said. And the situation is set to get even more acute as climate change increases the spread and frequency of infectious diseases such as malaria and dengue. Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate-related disease." Human activity such as population (growth) and transport combined with climate change increases antibacterial resistance... and therefore the need for more pharmaceuticals."	False
468	vox	left_bias	2018-07-05	(A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges.	His efforts have included revising emissions standards for cars and trucks, increasing his control over the implementation of the Clean Water Act and weakening standards on hazardous chemicals.	)Pruitt's goals as EPA administrator have centered on crafting (or destroying) policy in order to establish a friendlier regime for the fossil fuel industry.	")During Wheeler's testimony in a congressional hearing last fall, he dodged a question about climate change: "I believe that man has an impact on the climate, but it's not completely understood what that impact is," he said, according to Inside Climate News.	As a New York Times story lays out, Murray was the architect of a so-called environmental regulations wish list, which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry — like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA.		A brief guide to Andrew Wheeler, Scott Pruitt's replacement at the EPA Following the pile-up of months and months of scandals, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt is finally out — which means a significantly less notorious successor is now in. Introduced to the world via a tweet from President Donald Trump, EPA Deputy Administrator Andrew Wheeler is set to take over the position in an acting capacity. Wheeler, who was confirmed for the EPA deputy role in April, appears to be cut from much of the same cloth as his former boss when it comes to rolling back environmental regulations. Here are three key facts to know about the person who will soon be overseeing the Environmental Protection Agency. Wheeler, age 55, is a former lobbyist who represented Murray Energy, a massive mining company, as one of his chief clients. Murray Energy was among the companies Wheeler listed on his financial disclosures while he was being considered for the deputy administrator position. Others included Xcel Energy and General Mills. Murray Energy CEO Robert Murray is also a well-known Trump adviser and supporter, who Wheeler worked with closely. As a New York Times story lays out, Murray was the architect of a so-called environmental regulations wish list, which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry — like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA. Wheeler and Murray were photographed at a March 2017 meeting with Energy Secretary Rick Perry, where many of these policies were purportedly discussed. All this suggests that Wheeler won't be particularly aggressive toward the coal industry while in office. "Andrew Wheeler's coal credentials are without equal," Sen. Edward Markey has said, according to CBS News. "He is, without question, a member of the coal industry's Hall of Fame." Wheeler was also a longtime staffer for Sen. Jim Inhofe, serving as chief counsel for the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee while the lawmaker was chair, according to Inside Climate News. All told, Wheeler spent 14 years working with Inhofe on the Hill. Inhofe was among Pruitt's biggest fans, although the barrage of scandals ultimately began to dim his enthusiasm. Inhofe is known for denying that climate change is affected by human activity, once throwing a snowball onto the Senate floor to counter arguments about climate change and prove that it was "very, very cold" outside. (His former staffers have become nicknamed by some as the "Inhofe mafia.")During Wheeler's testimony in a congressional hearing last fall, he dodged a question about climate change: "I believe that man has an impact on the climate, but it's not completely understood what that impact is," he said, according to Inside Climate News. As the New York Times points out, however, there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss. Pruitt was Oklahoma's attorney general before being named to Trump's Cabinet, and an outsider who recklessly took advantage of the privileges he obtained. Wheeler is seen as a seasoned political operative who knows how to carefully traverse the system. (He was also at the EPA as a special assistant in the agency's Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics for four years before he worked for Inhofe.)Pruitt's goals as EPA administrator have centered on crafting (or destroying) policy in order to establish a friendlier regime for the fossil fuel industry. His efforts have included revising emissions standards for cars and trucks, increasing his control over the implementation of the Clean Water Act and weakening standards on hazardous chemicals. It appears that Wheeler is on track to do more of the same — and his insider instincts and methodical nature could mean even more effective rollbacks. (A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges.)As Trump said himself, "I have no doubt that Andy will continue on with our great and lasting EPA agenda."	False
820	RT	questionable_source	2017-07-04	This includes a two-year delay on a certain regulations aimed at minimizing chemical accidents.	he court's ruling is yet another reminder, now in the context of environmental protection, that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the president's desire to order immediate change," Richard Lazarus, environmental-law professor at Harvard Law School, said in an email as reported by the Post.	Two judges concluded, "the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration, and indeed, that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule."	Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years.	EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has long sought a repeal of the Obama-era rules.A three-judge panel of the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled 2-1 that the EPA would be allowed to reconsider a 2016 ruling that limited methane and smog-forming pollutants emitted by oil and gas wells, but could not delay the date it begins.		Federal appeals court blocks Trump's attempt to roll back Obama-era methane rules The Environmental Protection Agency's 90-day suspension of new emission standards on oil and gas wells has been struck down by a US appeals court. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has long sought a repeal of the Obama-era rules.A three-judge panel of the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled 2-1 that the EPA would be allowed to reconsider a 2016 ruling that limited methane and smog-forming pollutants emitted by oil and gas wells, but could not delay the date it begins. Two judges concluded, "the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration, and indeed, that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule." READ MORE: Mining in Alaska may return as EPA scraps Obama-era regulationsPruitt, the new head of the EPA, had been looking to extend a suspension on these activities for two years. There will be a separate administration public hearing on the same extension next Monday, according to the Washington Post." he court's ruling is yet another reminder, now in the context of environmental protection, that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the president's desire to order immediate change," Richard Lazarus, environmental-law professor at Harvard Law School, said in an email as reported by the Post. Lazarus continued, "the DC Circuit's ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator, Scott Pruitt, can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration." Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions. At the time, Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation. Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years. This includes a two-year delay on a certain regulations aimed at minimizing chemical accidents.	True
760	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-06-27	his sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority," said Hal Quinn, NMA president and chief executive.	In recent months, the EPA has wound back rules curbing vehicle emissions, toxic waste from power plants and methane leaks from oil and gas drilling operations.	But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands, it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land.	e are taking significant action to return power to the states and provide regulatory certainty to our nation's farmers and businesses," said Scott Pruitt, administrator of the EPA.	The National Mining Association, another opponent of the rule and representative of an industry relentlessly backed by Trump, welcomed its impending demise."		EPA seeks to scrap rule protecting drinking water for third of Americans The Environmental Protection Agency is poised to dismantle the federal clean water rule, which protects waterways that provide drinking water for about a third of the US population. The EPA, with the US army, has proposed scrapping the rule in order to conduct a "substantive re-evaluation" of which rivers, streams, wetlands and other bodies of water should be protected by the federal government." e are taking significant action to return power to the states and provide regulatory certainty to our nation's farmers and businesses," said Scott Pruitt, administrator of the EPA. Pruitt said the EPA would swiftly redefine clean water regulations in a "thoughtful, transparent and collaborative" way with other agencies and the public. Green groups, however, said the move pandered to fossil fuel and farming interests and was part of an agenda to weaken clean water protections." nce again, the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country, and once again it's putting the health of American families and communities at risk," said Michael Brune, executive director of Sierra Club. "We will fight this and every other attempt by polluters and the Trump administration to destroy our water resources." The planned rollback follows an executive order penned by Donald Trump in February which called for a review of the regulation, also known as the waters of the United States rule, that was introduced by the Obama administration in 2015. The rule was meant to end years of confusion over which waterways were federally protected from pollution, with the clean water rule simply designating "navigable" waters for safeguards. The Obama administration widened this definition to include the drinking water of about 117 million Americans. But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands, it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land. Trump has called the rule "one of the worst examples of federal regulation" and a "massive power grab". Signing his order, the president said thousands of jobs were at risk because "the EPA decided that navigable waters can mean nearly every puddle or every ditch on a farmer's land or anyplace else that they decide". While "puddles" aren't mentioned in the rule, the EPA does have greater latitude to regulate under it. However, there is no evidence that the regulation could result in the loss of thousands of jobs. The National Mining Association, another opponent of the rule and representative of an industry relentlessly backed by Trump, welcomed its impending demise." his sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority," said Hal Quinn, NMA president and chief executive. The clean water rule reversal, which will now go through a period of public comment ahead of a final decision, is the latest in a string of regulations to be paused or scrapped by the Trump administration. In recent months, the EPA has wound back rules curbing vehicle emissions, toxic waste from power plants and methane leaks from oil and gas drilling operations.	False
102	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-09-10	Still, environmentalists and Native Americans invested in the land said such documents fail to address a larger trend of leasing increasingly more land on or near sensitive tribal landscapes.	hen this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands, it risks de-stabilizing the bedrock (of the structures)," said Ahjani Yepa, a member of Utah Diné Bikéyah, a Navajo grass-roots organization.	But the new "energy-dominated era" she said we're in has made public input on these processes harder.	"Hovenweep is in all of our stories, and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything we've carried forward as resilient people."	The agency says in planning documents that companies should take steps to protect the environmental and cultural landscape of the area, including limiting the use of artificial light at drilling sites and protecting useable groundwater aquifers from drilling.		Oil Drilling Plan Near Sacred Utah Monument Draws Tribal Opposition Included in the Bureau of Land Management's September oil and gas lease sale is about 47 square miles (122 square kilometers) of land north of Hovenweep National Monument, a group of prehistoric villages overlooking a canyon with connections to several indigenous tribes throughout the U.S. Southwest. The parcels for lease are about five to 20 miles (eight to 32 kilometers) north of the monument. The sale comes amid an ongoing debate over drilling in states like Colorado, Arizona and New Mexico, where a coalition of tribes are calling for a halt on energy development near land that Native Americans consider sacred. The Trump administration has pushed to open vast expanses of public lands to oil and gas drilling, speed up the construction of petroleum pipelines and ease federal environmental regulations, dismissing calls from scientists in and out of government that immediate cuts in oil, gas and coal emissions are required to stave off the worst of climate change." hen this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands, it risks de-stabilizing the bedrock (of the structures)," said Ahjani Yepa, a member of Utah Diné Bikéyah, a Navajo grass-roots organization. "Hovenweep is in all of our stories, and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything we've carried forward as resilient people." Hovenweep was designated as an International Dark Sky Park in 2014 by the International Dark-Sky Association, recognized for its striking night skies and star-gazing opportunities. Southeast Utah is known for its sweeping desert landscapes and expansive night skies. The state has 11 internationally recognized "Dark Sky Parks," the most of any state. Business owners in Bluff said the dark skies drive tourism to Hovenweep, and feared industrial light pollution, as well as the sounds and smells of energy development, could drive visitors away. As of Monday afternoon, Finch said there were no results to share and the sale would continue until at least Tuesday. The agency says in planning documents that companies should take steps to protect the environmental and cultural landscape of the area, including limiting the use of artificial light at drilling sites and protecting useable groundwater aquifers from drilling. Companies must obtain permits and go through environmental reviews before they begin construction or drilling. Some leases go years before drilling or expire before any activity occurs. Still, environmentalists and Native Americans invested in the land said such documents fail to address a larger trend of leasing increasingly more land on or near sensitive tribal landscapes. Parcels near Hovenweep were offered, then deferred, in a March BLM lease sale, and new documents for an upcoming December lease sale show more land will be up for grabs." t least we have our little foot in the door, but that's as far as we've gotten," she said. "They argue these lands are abandoned, but they're not, we use them in our prayers, we visit them. You wouldn't like it if I went into your home, your land, and started digging." The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long-term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes, said Erika Pollard, an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association. But the new "energy-dominated era" she said we're in has made public input on these processes harder.	False
687	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-23	A research review published last November found errors in the methodologies, assumptions or analyses used by in those studies that, when fixed, put the findings in line with mainstream climate scientists.	"As a Christian, that's a problem to me, because, well, aside from the philosophy behind those systems, it's just, again, empirically been disastrous."	I see that some of the anthropogenic global warming rhetoric has been picked up by people who are really excited about trying to experiment with those types of systems in the West as a solution to those problems," Wanliss said.	And there are serious flaws in the studies published by the 3 percent of scientists whose research suggests otherwise.	In fact, 97 percent of peer-reviewed scientists have found that climate change is a serious threat and is at least exacerbated by humans.	ot only do scientists disagree on 'global warming,' but there is little hard evidence that carbon emissions cause changes to the global climate. <sep> 	Roy Moore Is An Outspoken Fundamentalist About Everything But Climate Change He's written poems lamenting legal abortion. He wants to make gay sex illegal and overturn marriage equality. The former judge says he places "God's law" above the Constitution, describes Islam as a "false religion" and has repeatedly defied federal orders to remove religious ornaments from his courtroom. He doesn't believe in evolution, compares preschool to Nazi-style indoctrination and once said the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks were divine punishment for the United States' godlessness. His campaign site calls for energy independence and stakes out the vague position: "Coal mining and oil drilling should be encouraged, subject only to reasonable regulations." In July, he was the only candidate to refuse to answer questions about climate change for a Montgomery Advertiser story. Katie Frost, his spokeswoman, did not respond to multiple requests for comment." ot only do scientists disagree on 'global warming,' but there is little hard evidence that carbon emissions cause changes to the global climate. But it appears that Obama and his liberal administration are not really interested in what the Constitution or the scientific community have to say when it interferes with their radical agenda." In fact, 97 percent of peer-reviewed scientists have found that climate change is a serious threat and is at least exacerbated by humans. And there are serious flaws in the studies published by the 3 percent of scientists whose research suggests otherwise. A research review published last November found errors in the methodologies, assumptions or analyses used by in those studies that, when fixed, put the findings in line with mainstream climate scientists. That consensus is so strong that in 2005 one of the standard-bearers of the evangelical Christian politics in which Moore enshrouds himself planned to take a stance affirming the science. That year, the National Association of Evangelicals proposed adopting a new platform called "For the Health of a Nation." The position paper called for protecting God's creation and embracing the government's help in doing so. But after receiving unanimous support by the board, the 30-million-member organization voted down the proposal, kickstarting a campaign by fossil fuel interests to transform the doubt over global warming into what Splinter, in a lengthy report published in August, succinctly described as "the word of God." White evangelical Christians, more than 80 percent of whom supported Trump in last November's election, are the least likely of any U.S. religious group to believe climate change is occurring, according to 2015 data from the Pew Research Center. Just 28 percent of white evangelicals believe the planet is warming primarily due to human activity, compared with 56 percent of black Protestants and 41 percent of white mainline Protestants who say the opposite. Roughly 37 percent of white evangelicals don't believe the climate is changing at all. This is a demographic Moore, who attends the Gallant First Baptist Church near his home, seems likely to tap. Alabama has the highest percentage of Baptists after Tennessee, with 31 percent of residents in the state, according to Pew's 2014 Religious Landscape study. In December, The Baptist Press, the official media arm of the Southern Baptist Convention, published an open letter of support for Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt's nomination amid fierce backlash over the former Oklahoma attorney general's rejection of the scientific consensus on climate change. On one side of that debate is a theological argument that's gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade. According to that interpretation, God provided fossil fuels for humans to exploit, and Christian environmentalists who believed in shifting to renewable energy were deceived by the "false doctrine" of the so-called "Green Dragon," a demonic force that fooled people into putting the needs of the planet ahead of those of the poor." s a Christian, I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible," James Wanliss, an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author of The Green Dragon: Is Global Warming a Religion?, told HuffPost. "If you're grindingly poor, you're just going to care about your next meal, and too bad if trees get in your way." I see that some of the anthropogenic global warming rhetoric has been picked up by people who are really excited about trying to experiment with those types of systems in the West as a solution to those problems," Wanliss said. "As a Christian, that's a problem to me, because, well, aside from the philosophy behind those systems, it's just, again, empirically been disastrous." Roy Moore, he's part of that culture," Michael Hansen, executive director of the Birmingham-based environmental group Gasp and a former candidate in the Democratic primary for Senate, told HuffPost. "Something that I hear quite a bit from the right wing in Alabama is that God gave us fossil fuels for a reason. I wouldn't be surprised if Roy Moore said that at some point during his campaign." Alabama emerged in June from more than a year of "the worst drought in memory," affecting 98 percent of the state. The state braced twice in the past month for damage from the devastating series of hurricanes that struck neighboring states, but it was spared the destruction after the winds weakened. Yet nearly 37 percent of Alabamians don't believe global warming is happening, 7 percentage points below the national average, according to survey data from the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication.	False
638	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-10-24	Officials pointed to the public health concerns, ranging from safety of residents in the burned neighborhoods to concerns for hazardous waste entering waterways and the air.	With hundreds of anxious homeowners listening, state emergency services official Eric Lamoureux set a target of early 2018 for completing the clean-up and allowing owners to start rebuilding.	Many survivors — at Monday's forum, and in fire zones where people are returning — say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal."	For property owners who let the government handle the clean-up, taxpayers will cover any of the costs of debris removal that insurance doesn't, Lamoureux said.	The meeting gave residents some of the first briefings on the clean-up to come.		Heartbreaking clean-up begins... Joyce Farinato, a pastor and artist who lost her Glen Ellen, Calif., home in recent wildfires, stands in the ruins Monday, Oct. 23, 2017, and shows a mask she found in the debris, one of her few surviving possessions. Farinato said she wants to follow the environmental rules on cleaning burned sites but needs to know what they are. (AP Photo/Ellen Knickmeyer)SANTA ROSA, Calif. (AP) — Government officials outlined plans Monday for what they say will be the largest fire clean-up in California history, aimed at removing hazardous substances and ash from 8,400 homes and other structures burned in Northern California wildfires. With hundreds of anxious homeowners listening, state emergency services official Eric Lamoureux set a target of early 2018 for completing the clean-up and allowing owners to start rebuilding. California has declared a public health emergency in the fire area, in part because of concern for hazardous substances ranging from freon in air-conditioners to asbestos in older homes. The fires that began Oct. 8 have killed at least 42 people, making them the deadliest series of wildfires in state history." The size and scope of this debris removal process will be one for the record books," Sen. Mike McGuire, a Democrat from the wine-country town of Healdsburg, told fire survivors at a Santa Rosa community forum. The meeting gave residents some of the first briefings on the clean-up to come. Authorities have warned residents returning to the ruins of their homes to beware of possible hazardous residues in the ashes, and required them to sign forms acknowledging the danger. Many survivors — at Monday's forum, and in fire zones where people are returning — say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal." How do you get to get your mourning started if I can't stop and put hands" on the scattering of possessions left, asked resident Joyce Farinato, who wore gardening gloves and a mask Monday as she walked through the chunks of concrete and bent metal that were all that was left of her home in rural Sonoma County."I'd like to know what's hazardous. What are we looking for?" Farinato said. In Santa Rosa, authorities with the Federal Emergency Management Administration and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers joined local and state officials answering other questions from homeowners. In two of the hardest-hit areas, Sonoma and Napa, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will be the agency that moves first, removing any hazardous materials from the thousands of sites, officials said Monday. State agencies would handle the same task in five other burned counties. The EPA effort would start this week, said Lamoureux, of California's Office of Emergency Services. Hundreds of teams led by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are to move in next, removing ash and rubble. In Sonoma County, the scene of the most destruction and deaths, county officials will draft environmental standards to be followed by any homeowners who opt to handle the clean-up themselves, at their own expense, officials said. For property owners who let the government handle the clean-up, taxpayers will cover any of the costs of debris removal that insurance doesn't, Lamoureux said. Authorities have yet to put a price tag on the process. Homeowners shouted questions on matters ranging from their liability in the clean-up to the extent that contractors would be scraping bare building sites. Laney Wall, who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove, asked why homeowners had to go through the expense, trouble and wait of the clean-up at all." What legally is the justification for declaring my home site a hazardous waste site, requiring this onerous process?" Wall asked. Officials pointed to the public health concerns, ranging from safety of residents in the burned neighborhoods to concerns for hazardous waste entering waterways and the air. Officials promised more town meetings. Homeowners said that was a good idea."I just have more questions now," Danny Thom, another Fountaingrove resident, said after the meeting.	True
39	thepoliticalinsider	right_bias	2019-04-04	And is exactly what we need to do now to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels, greenhouse gas emissions, invest in the jobs and technologies of renewable energy that will allow us to meet our obligation and allow this country once again to claim its status as the indispensable nation."	We have no more than 12 years to take incredibly bold action on this crisis."	t's exactly what we did to face the Nazi threat, the existential threat to Western democracies in 1941," he said.	When you think about leadership, those who preceded us — those who were on the beaches in Normandy, those who faced an existential threat to Western democracy and our way of life, they showed us the way," he said referencing a plan to fight climate change."	"The scientists are unanimous on this.		Beto Compares Green New Deal to Defeating Nazis, Overcoming Great Depression At a town hall event in Ames, Iowa Wednesday, Democrat candidate for president Beto O'Rourke, compared the Green New Deal to defeating the Nazis and surviving the Great Depression. Why is it that Democrats, clearly lacking in any context of what World War II and living in the greatest generation were like, enjoy comparing these things to mundane policy initiatives?Addressing the Green New Deal, O'Rourke summoned his followers to harness the "the most ingenious mechanism yet devised by humankind" to "free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels." The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy. Meanwhile, what comes out of Beto's mouth next is not, in fact, ingenious." t's exactly what we did to face the Nazi threat, the existential threat to Western democracies in 1941," he said. "Exactly what we did to lift millions out of the Great Depression and build the largest middle class the world had yet seen." And is exactly what we need to do now to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels, greenhouse gas emissions, invest in the jobs and technologies of renewable energy that will allow us to meet our obligation and allow this country once again to claim its status as the indispensable nation." It's hard not to look at this hyperactive Gen X-er and think this is exactly what the far left has become – a group that has rarely experienced hardship in their lifetime because of the greatest generation, comparing everything they find upsetting to the greatest generation. Beto likes his World War II comparisons so much that he mentions it time and again when discussing the threat of global warming. Sure, every time he mentions it O'Rourke is mocked relentlessly by those outside of his little campaign crowds. But he doesn't care, because, in his mind, it's real. How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like "those who were on the beaches in Normandy." When you think about leadership, those who preceded us — those who were on the beaches in Normandy, those who faced an existential threat to Western democracy and our way of life, they showed us the way," he said referencing a plan to fight climate change." his is the final chance," he added, echoing Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez' warning that the world will end due to climate change. "The scientists are unanimous on this. We have no more than 12 years to take incredibly bold action on this crisis." Every time I watch this guy speak, I think of the UPS Guy from Mad TV. How does a man who, under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop, dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?How did the resistance get to this point? It's embarrassing.	False
472	cnn	left_bias	2018-11-23	What can be doneThe report was created to inform policy-makers and makes no specific recommendations on how to remedy the problem.	Dependable and safe water for the Hawaii, the Caribbean and others are threatened by these rising temperatures.	In Houston, communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause.	Scientists who have been raising the alarm about the negative consequences of climate change for years welcomed the findings.	However, it suggests that if the United States immediately reduced its fossil fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions, it could save thousands of lives and generate billions of dollars in benefits for the country.	The quality and quantity of their crops will decline across the country due to higher temperatures, drought and flooding. <sep> Climate change brings dire consequences to the US, federal report concludes (CNN) A new US government report delivers a dire warning about climate change and its devastating impacts, saying the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars -- or, in the worst-case scenario, more than 10% of its GDP -- by the end of the century. <sep> Sea levels have already gone up 7 to 8 inches since 1900. <sep> 	Climate change brings dire consequences to the US, federal report concludes (CNN) A new US government report delivers a dire warning about climate change and its devastating impacts, saying the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars -- or, in the worst-case scenario, more than 10% of its GDP -- by the end of the century. The federally mandated study was supposed to come out in December but was released by the Trump administration on Friday, at a time when many Americans are on a long holiday weekend, distracted by family and shopping." The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced, and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities," Easterling said. Coming from the US Global Change Research Program , a team of 13 federal agencies, the Fourth National Climate Assessment was put together with the help of 1,000 people, including 300 leading scientists, roughly half from outside the government. Without significant reductions in greenhouse emissions, the annual average global temperature could increase 9 degrees Fahrenheit (5 Celsius) or more by the end of this century, compared with preindustrial temperatures, the report says. The costs of climate change could reach hundreds of billions of dollars annually, according to the report. The Southeast alone will probably lose over a half a billion labor hours by 2100 due to extreme heat. Farmers will face extremely tough times. The quality and quantity of their crops will decline across the country due to higher temperatures, drought and flooding. In parts of the Midwest, farms will be able to produce less than 75% of the corn they produce today, and the southern part of the region could lose more than 25% of its soybean yield. Heat stress could cause average dairy production to fall between 0.60% and 1.35% over the next 12 years -- having already cost the industry $1.2 billion from heat stress in 2010. Wildfire seasons -- already longer and more destructive than before -- could burn up to six times more forest area annually by 2050 in parts of the United States. Burned areas in Southwestern California alone could double by 2050. Dependable and safe water for the Hawaii, the Caribbean and others are threatened by these rising temperatures. Along the US coasts, public infrastructure and $1 trillion in national wealth held in real estate are threatened by rising sea levels, flooding and storm surges. Energy systems will be taxed, meaning more blackouts and power failures, and the potential loss in some sectors could reach hundreds of billions of dollars per year by the end of the century, the report said. The number of days over 100 degrees Fahrenheit will multiply; Chicago, where these days are rare, could start to resemble Phoenix or Las Vegas, with up to two months worth of these scorching-hot days. Sea levels have already gone up 7 to 8 inches since 1900. Almost half that rise has been since 1993, a rate of rise greater than during any century in the past 2,800 years. Some countries are already seeing land underwater. By midcentury, it's likely that the Arctic will lose all sea ice in late summer, and that could lead to more permafrost thaw, according to the report. As the permafrost thaws, more carbon dioxide and methane would be released, amplifying human-induced warming, "possibly significantly." What can be doneThe report was created to inform policy-makers and makes no specific recommendations on how to remedy the problem. However, it suggests that if the United States immediately reduced its fossil fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions, it could save thousands of lives and generate billions of dollars in benefits for the country. Reactions to the new report have been strong across the scientific community." In Houston, communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause. We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered, but believed and acted upon." Scientists who have been raising the alarm about the negative consequences of climate change for years welcomed the findings.	True
756	Yahoo News	left_center_bias	2017-08-10	his report is a diagnostic report.	It basically diagnoses what is happening in the climate system," Arndt said on a conference call.	(Photo: Getty/EyeEm)The evidence behind global climate change continues to mount, and scientists keep speaking out.	"It's not just NOAA who is agreeing with it.	Now they hope the world will listen.		Climate scientists continue to sound the alarm: Global warming fueled record temperatures in 2016 Scientists say that 2016 has been confirmed as the warmest year on record. (Photo: Getty/EyeEm)The evidence behind global climate change continues to mount, and scientists keep speaking out. Now they hope the world will listen. The latest international climate report from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) confirms that 2016 was the third consecutive year of record global heat. On Thursday afternoon the American Meteorological Society published the 27th annual "State of the Climate" report, which verifies last year surpassed 2015 as the hottest since record keeping began in 1880. Based on preliminary data, NASA and NOOA had made the same assessment back in January, but this week's report is considered definitive." e're scientists, and we're providing objective information," Jessica Blunden, a climate scientist at NOAA's National Climatic Data Center in Asheville, N.C., told Yahoo News. "We don't go into policy, but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that." According to the report, the effect of long-term global warming and a powerful El Niño early on pushed 2016 into record-setting warmth. The global average sea level reached a new record high last year as well, to 3.25 inches above the average level in 1993, which marks the beginning of the satellite altimeter record. Scientists also said that the average Arctic land surface temperature continued to warm and global ice and snow cover continued to decline. Sea ice extents in the Antarctic hit record daily and monthly lows in August and November. The "State of the Climate" report is based on contributions from nearly 500 scientists from more than 60 countries, using tens of thousands of measurements from several independent data sets. This summary of the global climate confirms data released on Jan. 18 based on analyses from scientists at NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York. Blunden said the use of additional independent data sets distinguishes this report from what came before." he big difference in this report is we don't just look at NOAA data. There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion," Blunden told Yahoo News. "It's not just NOAA who is agreeing with it. NASA, the U.K. Met Office and the Japan Meteorological Agency are agreeing." Since the previous data was released mere days before President Trump's inauguration, this peer-reviewed report is the most thorough assessment of climate change officially released during the Trump era. Deke Arndt, chief of the climate-monitoring branch at NOAA's National Centers for Environmental Information, described the report as diagnostic when asked if anyone from the White House had weighed in on it or questioned its findings." his report is a diagnostic report. It basically diagnoses what is happening in the climate system," Arndt said on a conference call. "It's intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that you're talking about." Concentrations of major greenhouse gases in the atmosphere also reached to new highs in 2016. For instance, the global average concentration of carbon dioxide (CO2), the primary driver of anthropogenic climate change, in the atmosphere reached 402.9 parts per million (ppm). This was the first time on record that CO2 concentration exceeded 400 ppm. The consensus of climate scientists is that the maximum safe level is 350.	False
126	motherjones	left_bias	2019-07-29	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices."	"This systemic environmental injustice will only get worse and become more ingrained if climate and environmental policies like the Green New Deal do not specifically focus on lifting up these communities."	It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate, which is how to include low-income and communities of color—the frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate change—in the legislative process."	The proposal, called the Climate Equity Act, is not a comprehensive plan for addressing the climate crisis or cutting pollution, but it focuses on addressing equity and environmental racism, echoing the broader themes of Harris' campaign.	"That same pollution is warming up our planet and warming our oceans.	e cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisiana's Cancer Alley," Harris said in a statement. <sep> rom the toxic air embattling Cancer Alley in Louisiana and Asthma Alley in the Bronx to the unsafe drinking water in California's San Joaquin Valley and Flint, Michigan," Harris said, "the nation's bedrock environmental protections have not stopped frontline communities from continually falling through the cracks." <sep> Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant, because it helps "put up a wall of protections around those communities," adding, "I think it's just now starting to gather steam." <sep> "It's a climate crisis…That is why I support a Green New Deal." <sep> 	Kamala Harris and AOC Just Injected Environmental Justice Into the 2020 Race Sen. Kamala Harris was the first candidate to mention the Green New Deal in the first presidential debate, when she corrected NBC moderator Chuck Todd. "I don't even call it climate change," she said. "It's a climate crisis…That is why I support a Green New Deal." And yet, of the top four presidential candidates, Harris has the thinnest legislative record when it comes to climate change; her 2019 bill to electrify school bus fleets has taken only a slice at the problem. On Monday, the day before the second round of debates among the 20 Democratic presidential hopefuls, she released the first major climate proposal of her campaign, partnering with the original author of the Green New Deal resolution, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. The proposal, called the Climate Equity Act, is not a comprehensive plan for addressing the climate crisis or cutting pollution, but it focuses on addressing equity and environmental racism, echoing the broader themes of Harris' campaign. It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate, which is how to include low-income and communities of color—the frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate change—in the legislative process." rom the toxic air embattling Cancer Alley in Louisiana and Asthma Alley in the Bronx to the unsafe drinking water in California's San Joaquin Valley and Flint, Michigan," Harris said, "the nation's bedrock environmental protections have not stopped frontline communities from continually falling through the cracks." The proposal requires that any environmental legislation receive an equity score to assess its impact on frontline communities, much in the same way the Congressional Budget Office scores the economic costs and impacts of bills. The proposal also requires an extra level of scrutiny for White House executive actions on low-income communities and people of color and feedback from those affected communities. A new Climate and Environmental Justice office would coordinate all the impact assessment efforts." e cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisiana's Cancer Alley," Harris said in a statement. "This systemic environmental injustice will only get worse and become more ingrained if climate and environmental policies like the Green New Deal do not specifically focus on lifting up these communities." Mustafa Ali, the former head of the EPA environmental justice office, noted that the idea of scoring environmental justice impacts is something advocates have pushed for years. "When you look at where most of the fossil fuel facilities are located, they are in communities of color," Ali said. "That same pollution is warming up our planet and warming our oceans. People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices." Harris is not the only presidential candidate who has come out with a plan focused on environmental justice. Jay Inslee released the fifth plank of his climate change package on Monday that refocuses the White House Council of Environmental Quality as a new clearinghouse for environmental justice and has its own scoring mechanism for impacts. Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant, because it helps "put up a wall of protections around those communities," adding, "I think it's just now starting to gather steam."	True
164	yahoonews	left_center_bias	2019-12-24	You talk about the carbon footprint — fumes are spewing into the air.	"Gases are spewing into the atmosphere.	Interior Department spokesman Nicholas Goodwin said in a statement that the government needed to make sure the project was "safe and environmentally responsible."	ind now supplies clean and efficient power to the equivalent of 32 million American homes, sustains 500 U.S. factories, and delivers more than $1 billion a year in new revenue to rural communities and states," Tom Kernan, CEO of AWEA, said in a statement.	Spewing.		Trump huffs and puffs about windmills, but wind power keeps growing Despite longstanding opposition to renewable energy on the part of President Trump, who gave a rambling, nearly incoherent disquisition on windmills last weekend, the wind power industry in the United States continued to grow in 2019. The country set records for newly installed capacity of wind power in both the second and third quarters of 2019, according to a report by the American Wind Energy Association, reaching a total of 100 gigawatts —roughly on a par with nuclear plants, although in terms of actual power generated (as distinguished from theoretical capacity), wind is still a fraction of nuclear and fossil fuels." ind now supplies clean and efficient power to the equivalent of 32 million American homes, sustains 500 U.S. factories, and delivers more than $1 billion a year in new revenue to rural communities and states," Tom Kernan, CEO of AWEA, said in a statement. At a time when global carbon emissions that cause climate change continue to rise, wind power now accounts for 6.5 percent of the energy America produces. Once the wind turbines are constructed, the energy they produce is carbon neutral and renewable indefinitely. Yet Trump, who believes that climate change is a "hoax," is no fan of windmills, as he once again made clear last weekend in a speech in Florida." e'll have an economy based on wind. I never understood wind. You know, I know windmills very much. I've studied it better than anybody. I know it's very expensive. They're made in China and Germany mostly — very few made here, almost none. But they're manufactured tremendous — if you're into this — tremendous fumes," Trump asserted. "Gases are spewing into the atmosphere. You know we have a world, right? So the world is tiny compared to the universe. So tremendous, tremendous amount of fumes and everything. You talk about the carbon footprint — fumes are spewing into the air. Right? Spewing. Whether it's in China, Germany, it's going into the air. It's our air, their air, everything — right? So they make these things and then they put them up." Trump, who filed an unsuccessful lawsuit against the government of Scotland to block the construction of offshore wind turbines he said would mar the views from one of his golf resorts, also complained in his Florida speech that wind turbines killed birds." o under a windmill someday, you'll see more birds than you've ever seen ever in your life," Trump said. While it is true that an estimated 234,000 birds die each year in collisions with wind turbines, according to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, many more are killed by flying into buildings or by domestic cats. In 2018, the Trump administration eliminated criminal penalties for unintentional migratory bird deaths resulting from industrial or agricultural activity, the New York Times reported. Despite the rapid growth in the construction of wind power facilities across the U.S., the Interior Department announced in August that it was withholding approval for a wind project off the coast of Massachusetts similar to the one Trump opposed in Scotland. Interior Department spokesman Nicholas Goodwin said in a statement that the government needed to make sure the project was "safe and environmentally responsible." In April, Trump, without citing any evidence, told a Republican audience that wind turbines were dangerous to human health." hey say the noise causes cancer," Trump said. That claim, like all the others Trump has made about wind power, was quickly refuted." he American Cancer Society is unaware of any credible evidence linking the noise from windmills to cancer," a spokesman for the group told the Times in an email.• None Behind Pelosi's risky strategy to withhold impeachment from Senate• None What happens to the articles of impeachment now?• None Trump impeachment FAQ: What you need to know	False
135	vox	left_bias	2019-06-25	Another option that would also require a quorum could be a motion to postpone the bill indefinitely, which under Senate rules would mean the bill could not be considered during this legislative session.	One possible first step could be for the Senate to vote to send the bill back to a committee but such a vote could not happen without a quorum, meaning at least two Republicans would have to return to the Capitol.	The concession from Democrats may have been motivated by a time constraint.	It's a long, thorough piece of legislation that mandates carbon emission reductions across the state's economy while accounting for job quality standards and economic equity.	They might succeed.		Oregon Republicans are in hiding to avoid voting on a climate bill. They might succeed. A top Oregon Senate Democrat on Tuesday flinched in the face of a Republican walkout, acknowledging that there are not enough votes to pass a major bill to address climate change." ouse Bill 2020 does not have the votes on the Senate floor," said Senate President Peter Courtney Tuesday morning in an admission of defeat. "That will not change." The central provision of House Bill 2020 is to institute a cap-and-trade mechanism for carbon dioxide across the state — a mechanism to cut emissions 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 and 80 percent by 2050. It's a long, thorough piece of legislation that mandates carbon emission reductions across the state's economy while accounting for job quality standards and economic equity. And it would make Oregon the second state after New York with a legally binding, economy-wide greenhouse gas reduction target. "There's been incredible work going into that bill," Courtney said. But according to Rick Osborn, communications director for the Oregon Senate Majority office, Democrats weren't able to muster the votes for HB 2020 within their own caucus. Oregon Republicans argued that the bill would harm their rural constituents and energy-intensive industries like cement production. They also said they were being bullied by Senate Democrats. And so 11 of them fled the state capitol on Thursday, apparently to an undisclosed location in Idaho, to deny quorum for a vote on the bill. Yet the walkout now appears to have been a highly politicized charade, since Democrats may not have had the votes to begin with. "My understanding is that it was known last week, before the Republicans walked out," Osborn told Vox. "[Courtney's admission] is not rewarding Senate Republicans for bad behavior." Democratic Gov. Kate Brown nonetheless last week sent state police to find the lawmakers and instituted a $500-per-day fine per person for each day they weren't present at a legislative session. "The Republicans are not standing against climate change, they're standing against democracy," she said during a press conference Tuesday. Republicans had used the moment as an opportunity to appear defiant, with one Republican state senator, Brian Boquist, even threatening police. Lawmakers closed down the capitol on Saturday after receiving credible threats from militia groups in favor of the Republican walkout. On Tuesday, some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtney's statement about the votes. And they weren't committing to returning to work either, according to Oregon Public Broadcasting's Lauren Dake:Even if Courtney wants to throw in the towel, it may not be easy to kill the climate change bill to bring Republicans back to Salem, as the Oregonian explained:Although Courtney wields significant power in the Senate, he cannot easily kill the climate bill in order to secure Republicans' return. One possible first step could be for the Senate to vote to send the bill back to a committee but such a vote could not happen without a quorum, meaning at least two Republicans would have to return to the Capitol. Another option that would also require a quorum could be a motion to postpone the bill indefinitely, which under Senate rules would mean the bill could not be considered during this legislative session. If and when the bill dies, it would be a painful defeat for Democrats, who won legislative supermajorities in both chambers of the Oregon legislature in the last election. Oregon has also been working on carbon pricing policies since 1997. The concession from Democrats may have been motivated by a time constraint. The Oregon state legislative session ends on June 30, and more than 100 bills, including funding for several state agencies, are at risk of being scrapped. Democrats have conceded to Republican walkouts before, yielding on major gun control and vaccine legislation. This latest surrender likely means that state Republicans, despite being in the minority, will continue to hold a veto over Democrats' agenda.	False
253	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-08-23	"It is an international crisis.	n the question of burning in the Amazon, which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money, what is the intention?"	Members of the G7 Summit, let's discuss this emergency first order in two days":Meanwhile, a spokesperson for the Elysée Palace said that "in light of Brazil's attitude these recent weeks Macron can only conclude that President Bolsonaro lied to him during the Osaka Summit" in June where world leaders agreed on the "urgent need" to combat climate change, pollution, and environmental destruction."	"Maybe — I am not affirming it — these (NGOs) are carrying out some criminal actions to draw attention against me, against the government of Brazil.	This is the war we are facing."		Amazon Fires: Brazil's Bolsonaro Urges Macron to Stop Meddling After He Threatens to Veto Trade Deal According to data from Brazil's National Institute for Space Research (NISR), which monitors deforestation and wildfires, around 74,000 fires have occurred across the Amazon rainforest in 2019, an 84 percent increase from the same period in 2018. Macron took to Twitter on Thursday to express concern about the fires that have reached a record number this year, devastating vast swathes of forest long described as the "lungs of the earth." Our house is burning. Literally. The Amazon rain forest – the lungs which produces 20% of our planet's oxygen – is on fire," Macron wrote on Twitter. "It is an international crisis. Members of the G7 Summit, let's discuss this emergency first order in two days":Meanwhile, a spokesperson for the Elysée Palace said that "in light of Brazil's attitude these recent weeks Macron can only conclude that President Bolsonaro lied to him during the Osaka Summit" in June where world leaders agreed on the "urgent need" to combat climate change, pollution, and environmental destruction." he decisions and statements from Brazil these recent weeks show clearly that President Bolsonaro has decided to not respect his commitments on the climate, nor to involve himself on the issue of biodiversity," the spokesperson said. As a consequence, Macron now plans to veto any trade deal "in its current state" between the European Union and the Mercosur bloc of South American nations including Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay, and Uruguay. Posting on Facebook, Bolsonaro accused Macron of making "personal political gains in an internal matter for Brazil and other Amazonian countries," adding that "the sensationalist tone he used does nothing to solve the problem." These countries that send money here, they don't send it out of charity," he said. "They send it with the aim of interfering with our sovereignty." Yet amid rising international pressure, the 63-year-old former army captain reportedly signed an executive order deploying the military to help reduce the wildfires, which he previously blamed on NGOs who were seeking to undermine his administration." n the question of burning in the Amazon, which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money, what is the intention?" Bolsonaro told reporters in Brasilia. "Maybe — I am not affirming it — these (NGOs) are carrying out some criminal actions to draw attention against me, against the government of Brazil.  This is the war we are facing."	True
619	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-09-19	In a hyper-political environment, pro-climate change and anti-climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand: the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters, and the implementation of standardized response to these crises.	Instead of focusing on the apprehension and divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters, it's more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together to help one another.	"As carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions have increased, there have been no trends in global tropical cycle landfalls."	New analysis disputes the theory that climate change was responsible for Harvey and Irma In a new study, economist and environmental analyst Nicholas Loris explained that climate change simply isn't responsible for Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season (as well as the most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria, which was said to "cripple" Dominica with "widespread devastation" en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States), it's important to maintain levelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speaking truth amidst apprehension.	Bottom line, Loris's analysis stated that "man-made warming" was not responsible for Harvey and Irma." <sep> 	New analysis disputes the theory that climate change was responsible for Harvey and Irma In a new study, economist and environmental analyst Nicholas Loris explained that climate change simply isn't responsible for Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Bottom line, Loris's analysis stated that "man-made warming" was not responsible for Harvey and Irma." an-made warming did not cause Harvey and Irma," Loris wrote. "As carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions have increased, there have been no trends in global tropical cycle landfalls." Loris said that the "average number of hurricanes per decade reaching landfall in the U.S. has fallen over the past 160 years." He added that the study is based on concrete "mainstream science," and cited reports from The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and NOAA to corroborate his analysis. Loris also disputed assertions that global warming "supercharged" these hurricanes, which made them deadlier, citing work by University of Washington climatologist Cliff Mass and former director of the National Hurricane Center Bill Read, both of whom rejected this claim after conducting research into the phenomenon. With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season (as well as the most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria, which was said to "cripple" Dominica with "widespread devastation" en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States), it's important to maintain levelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speaking truth amidst apprehension. In a hyper-political environment, pro-climate change and anti-climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand: the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters, and the implementation of standardized response to these crises. While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies, it's more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric, which only serves to "encourage" people through anxiety and panic. Instead of focusing on the apprehension and divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters, it's more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together to help one another.	False
190	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-08-27	It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people," he said.	Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as "inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster".	Every year it is the same, these fires are disturbing the region a lot."	Asked what he would like politicians to do for the Amazon, he said that he would like "economic alternatives for people here, to find a way we can make use of the natural wealth we have here"."	Mr Bolsonaro has previously said his government lacks the resources to fight the record number of fires in the Amazon region but his government is also being accused of slashing funding for environmental protection."	Environmental officials helped him extinguish the fires last week only for them to reignite, he said. <sep> It's a risky situation, we have lots of crops here and everything is burning, such as the cashew trees," he told the BBC. <sep> 	Amazon fires: Brazil to reject G7 offer of $22m aid Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has ruled out accepting a G7 offer of aid to fight fires in the Amazon rainforest unless he gets an apology from his French counterpart, Emmanuel Macron. Mr Bolsonaro said the French leader should apologise for insulting him personally by calling him a liar. Mr Macron had accused him of "lying" about fighting climate change. Aid worth $22m (£18m) was announced by Mr Macron at a summit in France of the seven leading industrial powers. Satellite data show a record number of fires burning in Brazil, most of them in the Amazon region. Earlier, Brazilian ministers said the G7 money was not needed and they accused foreign powers of wanting control of the Amazon. Last week, Mr Macron said Mr Bolsonaro had "lied" to him at a G20 summit in Osaka, Japan, in June by failing to respect his climate commitments and by failing to pursue biodiversity. Mr Macron said France would not ratify a huge trade deal with South American nations unless Brazil did more to fight fires in the Amazon. On Tuesday, Mr Bolsonaro told reporters in the capital Brasilia: "Mr Macron must withdraw the insults that he made to my person. Firstly, he called me a liar." He also accused Mr Macron of questioning Brazilian sovereignty over the Amazon region, Brazilian news website G1 reports." To talk or to accept anything from France, whether it be with the best possible intentions, he [Mr Macron] will have to withdraw those words and then we can talk," he said. The two presidents hold sharply different political views, with Mr Bolsonaro hailing from the far right in Brazil and Mr Macron elected in a run-off against the far right in France. In another development, Mr Bolsonaro responded to a joke on Facebook mocking the age of Mr Macron's wife Brigitte who, at 65, is 25 years his senior. He wrote: "Do not humiliate the guy, ha ha." Asked about Mr Bolsonaro's remarks, Mr Macron said they were "extraordinarily rude" and "sad". Adding to the row over the aid offer, Mr Bolsonaro's chief of staff, Onyx Lorenzoni, mocked the fire that ravaged Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris in April." Macron cannot even avoid a predictable fire in a church that is part of the world's heritage and he wants to give us lessons for our country?" he said, quoted by the Globo news website. As the largest rainforest in the world, the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming. It spans a number of countries, but the majority of it falls within Brazil. Wildfires often occur in the dry season in Brazil but satellite data published by Brazil's space agency show an increase of 80% this year. BBC analysis has also found that the record number of fires being recorded coincides with a sharp drop in fines being handed out for environmental violations. Mr Bolsonaro has previously said his government lacks the resources to fight the record number of fires in the Amazon region but his government is also being accused of slashing funding for environmental protection." The funding for Brazil's environment agency has gone down by 95% this year," Yadvinder Malhi, professor of Ecosystem Science at the University of Oxford, told the BBC's Today programme. On Friday, President Bolsonaro authorised the military to help tackle the blazes. Brazil says 44,000 soldiers have been deployed to combat the fires and environmental crimes in the Amazon, and military operations are under way in seven states as the result of requests for assistance from local governments. Jorgimar Alberto, from Roraima, one of the states most affected by the fires, has seen the burning of most of the land surrounding his wooden house." It's a risky situation, we have lots of crops here and everything is burning, such as the cashew trees," he told the BBC."I even had to keep the animals [inside] so that they don't burn as well. Every year it is the same, these fires are disturbing the region a lot." Environmental officials helped him extinguish the fires last week only for them to reignite, he said. His wife could not stand staying in the house with the smell of burning and the threat getting ever closer, so she left. Lumberyard owner Edson Oliveira from southern Amazonas said he did not believe the media coverage about the Amazon." In my opinion, the parts that are burning are the same that burn every year," he told the BBC. Asked what he would like politicians to do for the Amazon, he said that he would like "economic alternatives for people here, to find a way we can make use of the natural wealth we have here"." It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people," he said. The $22m was announced on Monday as the leaders of the G7 - Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and the US - met in Biarritz, France. Mr Macron said the funds would be made available immediately - primarily to pay for more firefighting planes - and that France would also "offer concrete support with military in the region". Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as "inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster". As international concern over the fires spread, Hollywood actor Leonardo DiCaprio pledged $5m towards helping the rainforest. He has long maintained that European countries are trying to gain access to Brazil's natural resources. He alleges that European interest in the welfare of the Amazon is a thin guise for attempts to gain a foothold in the region. Asked by international journalists about environmental protection of the Amazon at a press briefing on 6 July, he said: "Brazil is like a virgin that every pervert from the outside lusts for."	True
103	slate	left_bias	2019-08-24	Yet despite the new found sense of urgency, some are skeptical that the involvement of the military would really be able to do much.	"Once you have a huge forest fire like that, especially when you don't have all the kind of forest fire-fighting equipment that you have in places like the U.S. or Portugal, it's difficult to extinguish," Alfredo Sirkis, executive director of Brazil Climate Center, a think tank, said.	And while the fires have been burning for weeks, the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	Much of the attention has focused on Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, a long-time critic of the country's environmental regulations who had tried to minimize the effects of the fires.	That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non-governmental organizations of starting the fires.		Brazil Deploys Troops to Fight Amazon Fires After International Outcry Brazil called up its military to combat fires that are raging in the Amazon after international protests over the government's seeming unwillingness to act in the face of an environmental disaster. Around 44,000 troops and military aircraft will be made available for what has been described as an "unprecedented" effort to fight fires in at least six Brazilian states. It remains unclear how many of those troops will be put on the line to combat the forest fires. Although fires are common this time of year, they are more widespread. So far nearly 77,000 wildfires have been reported across the country this year, which marked an 85 percent increase from the same period last year. And while the fires have been burning for weeks, the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media. Protests took place in Brazil and across the world Friday and Saturday demanding that the Brazilian government take action. Much of the attention has focused on Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, a long-time critic of the country's environmental regulations who had tried to minimize the effects of the fires. Yet his tune appeared to change after leaders in Europe said a major trade deal could be at risk and many on social media started calling for a boycott of Brazilian products. Bolsonaro approved the involvement of the military to help put out fires in a televised speech Friday in which he claimed his government would have "zero tolerance" for environmental crimes. "Protecting the rain forest is our duty," he said. That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non-governmental organizations of starting the fires. Yet despite the new found sense of urgency, some are skeptical that the involvement of the military would really be able to do much. "Once you have a huge forest fire like that, especially when you don't have all the kind of forest fire-fighting equipment that you have in places like the U.S. or Portugal, it's difficult to extinguish," Alfredo Sirkis, executive director of Brazil Climate Center, a think tank, said. "They'll only be extinguished by themselves depending on the weather conditions." It was clear though that deploying the military was also in part a public relations ploy. A military leader, for example, said that part of its mission involved creating "a positive perception of the country." As attention focused on the fires burning in the Amazon, it became clear that Europeans have taken the role as the global leaders in the fight against climate change, notes the New York Times. As European leaders, led by French President Emanuel Macron, criticized Brazil for its inaction, President Donald Trump waited until Friday evening to say that the United States was willing to help only to add that "future trade prospects" with Brazil "are very exciting."	False
326	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-07-15	Employees wanting "medical or religious" exceptions can hash those out with a company policy team.	New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact, even more than switching to a hybrid car," WeWork co-founder Miguel McKelvey said in an email to staffers.	Company bans meat for employees on business...	The company estimates its no-meat policy will save 15,507,103 animals by 2023, according to Business Insider, along with 16.6 billion gallons of water and 445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide, the heat-trapping gas that alters Earth's climate.	The company won't provide meat for events at its 400 locations, either — part of an effort to reduce its environmental footprint."		Company bans meat for employees on business... If WeWork employees want a burger while on business, the money is coming out of their own pockets. The global workplace startup told employees this week that the company will ban employees from expensing meals that contain red meat, pork or poultry, Bloomberg reported. The company won't provide meat for events at its 400 locations, either — part of an effort to reduce its environmental footprint." New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact, even more than switching to a hybrid car," WeWork co-founder Miguel McKelvey said in an email to staffers. The no-meat policy will also affect self-serve food kiosks at many of WeWork's 400 locations worldwide, according to Bloomberg. Employees wanting "medical or religious" exceptions can hash those out with a company policy team. More: As co-working grows up, niche spaces take center stageWeWork boasts 6,000 employees worldwide, according to Bloomberg. The company estimates its no-meat policy will save 15,507,103 animals by 2023, according to Business Insider, along with 16.6 billion gallons of water and 445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide, the heat-trapping gas that alters Earth's climate. WeWork confirmed the policy change to both news outlets. WeWork is perhaps the most well-known company to emerge offering co-working spaces to freelancers, small businesses and even employees of large companies such as Microsoft. The Motley Fool named it one of the top five most valuable startups in America.	False
452	politicususa	left_bias	2018-07-02	Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change, citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures.	The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	Shell, in a statement, said, "lawsuits that masquerade as climate action and impede the collaboration needed for meaningful change" were not the answer to climate change.	The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers, consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products."	The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change, and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers' using fossil fuel products.	The lawsuit by the Democratic attorney general follows similar cases by U.S. cities and local governments, arguing the production of fossil fuels had led to rising tides that damaged shorelines, roads and other properties requiring remediation. <sep> The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally. <sep> Rhode Island sues major oil companies over climate change (Reuters) – Rhode Island on Monday sued several major oil companies, including Exxon Mobil Corp and BP plc, accusing them of contributing to climate change that is damaging infrastructure and coastal communities in the state. <sep> 	Rhode Island sues major oil companies over climate change (Reuters) – Rhode Island on Monday sued several major oil companies, including Exxon Mobil Corp and BP plc, accusing them of contributing to climate change that is damaging infrastructure and coastal communities in the state. The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally. The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers, consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products." or a very long time, there has been this perception that 'Big Oil' was too big to take on, but here we are – the smallest state – taking on some of the biggest corporate polluters in the world," Kilmartin said in a statement. The lawsuit, filed in Providence County Superior Court, named as defendants Exxon, BP, Royal Dutch Shell Plc, and Chevron Corp, among other companies. Shell, in a statement, said, "lawsuits that masquerade as climate action and impede the collaboration needed for meaningful change" were not the answer to climate change. The other companies did not respond to requests for comment. The lawsuit by the Democratic attorney general follows similar cases by U.S. cities and local governments, arguing the production of fossil fuels had led to rising tides that damaged shorelines, roads and other properties requiring remediation. The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change, and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers' using fossil fuel products. The lawsuit said that companies also violated the state's Environmental Rights Act by polluting and destroying natural resources in Rhode Island. Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change, citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures. The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	True
3	redstate	right_bias	2019-07-20	If a pipe bursts in your house, that's not the fault of climate change.	AOC Has Found Another Thing to Nonsensically Blame on the "Climate Crisis" Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has found something else to blame on the supposed "climate crisis.	It was because the infrastructure is falling apart.	Now, the alarmists want to complain about rain and flooding, as if those are new phenomenons on the earth?	Then there was the explosion at an oil refinery, which despite not being a weather event at all (nor being caused by one), was somehow the fault of climate change.	What happened to climate change leading to massive desertification and droughts? <sep> 	AOC Has Found Another Thing to Nonsensically Blame on the "Climate Crisis" Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has found something else to blame on the supposed "climate crisis."A few weeks ago she let us all know that heavy rain in a city built on a swamp was absolute proof of catastrophic global warming. She posted a picture of a few inches of water and called it "unprecedented flooding," even though Washington D.C. has had actual major floods several times throughout it's relatively short history. Then there was the explosion at an oil refinery, which despite not being a weather event at all (nor being caused by one), was somehow the fault of climate change. Weird how everything just so happens to reinforce her political narrative and now she's back with another hot take. You see, it rained in New York City and that was obviously caused by global warming. Did it rain a lot? No, not really. There was no record rainfall or a weeks worth of severe storms. It just…rained, something it has presumably been doing there for millions of years. In reality, New York City's subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement. The city's communist Mayor, Bill de Blasio, has run it into the ground with stupid financial decisions and misuse of funds. You see, they've got money to pay for illegal alien's healthcare, but they can't keep the trains running or the sewage systems from backing up. The flooding in this case wasn't because of a massive downpour. It was because the infrastructure is falling apart. If a pipe bursts in your house, that's not the fault of climate change. On a broader note, I'm confused. What happened to climate change leading to massive desertification and droughts? Now, the alarmists want to complain about rain and flooding, as if those are new phenomenons on the earth? Wouldn't those be good things in the face of supposed extreme heat?But making sense isn't a tenant of the climate religion.I've got a new twitter! Please help by following @bonchieredstate.	False
487	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-11-23	It gives many specific examples - overwhelmed dams in South Carolina; failing crops in the parched Great Plains; a rise in insect-borne disease in Florida.	But it says that projections of future catastrophe could change if society works to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and "to adapt to the changes that will occur".	The report says climate change is "presenting growing challenges to human health and safety, quality of life, and the rate of economic growth".	It is already deadly serious and without urgent, dramatic change, it will be catastrophic.	If the world fails to act, the researchers warned, there would be some significant and dangerous changes to our world, including rising sea levels, significant impacts on ocean temperatures and acidity, and the ability to grow crops such as rice, maize and wheat.	"A report released in October by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) - the leading international body evaluating climate change - said it could only be stopped if the world made major, and costly, changes. <sep> This report is striking for two reasons. <sep> Without substantial and sustained global mitigation and regional adaptation efforts, climate change is expected to cause growing losses to American infrastructure and property and impede the rate of economic growth over this century." <sep> Brenda Ekwurzel, director of climate science at the Union of Concerned Scientists and one of the report's authors, said the report made it clear that climate change was not "some problem in the distant future"." <sep> Climate change: Report warns of growing impact on US life Unchecked climate change will cost the US hundreds of billions of dollars and damage human health and quality of life, a US government report warns." <sep> And, secondly, it majors on the economic impact, in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation. <sep> First, it is not abstract. <sep> That means reducing global emissions of CO2 by 45% from 2010 levels by 2030, and reducing coal use to almost zero and using up to seven million sq km (2.7 million square miles) for land energy crops. <sep> Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today," the 4th National Climate Assessment says. <sep> With warnings about the effects on crumbling infrastructure, falling crop yields and decreasing labour productivity, the report sounds an alarm that climate change will soon cascade into every corner of American life. <sep> Spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said it was "largely based on the most extreme scenario, which contradicts long-established trends by assuming that... there would be limited technology and innovation, and a rapidly expanding population". <sep> With continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century - more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many US states," the report says." <sep> The report notes that the effects of climate change are already being felt in communities across the country, including more frequent and intense extreme weather and climate-related events. <sep> The warning is at odds with the Trump administration's fossil fuels agenda. <sep> 	Climate change: Report warns of growing impact on US life Unchecked climate change will cost the US hundreds of billions of dollars and damage human health and quality of life, a US government report warns." Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today," the 4th National Climate Assessment says. The report says climate change is "presenting growing challenges to human health and safety, quality of life, and the rate of economic growth". The warning is at odds with the Trump administration's fossil fuels agenda. During a blast of icy weather in Washington this week, Donald Trump tweeted, "whatever happened to global warming?"Now, without mentioning the president, his own scientists have answered their boss's question in comprehensive detail. Global warming is here in the United States, they say - now. It is already deadly serious and without urgent, dramatic change, it will be catastrophic. This report is striking for two reasons. First, it is not abstract. It gives many specific examples - overwhelmed dams in South Carolina; failing crops in the parched Great Plains; a rise in insect-borne disease in Florida. And, secondly, it majors on the economic impact, in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation. With warnings about the effects on crumbling infrastructure, falling crop yields and decreasing labour productivity, the report sounds an alarm that climate change will soon cascade into every corner of American life. The White House said the report - compiled with help from numerous US government agencies and departments - was inaccurate. Spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said it was "largely based on the most extreme scenario, which contradicts long-established trends by assuming that... there would be limited technology and innovation, and a rapidly expanding population". The world's leading scientists agree that climate change is human-induced and warn that natural fluctuations in temperature are being exacerbated by human activity. The US climate assessment outlines the prospective impacts of climate change across every sector of American society." With continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century - more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many US states," the report says." Without substantial and sustained global mitigation and regional adaptation efforts, climate change is expected to cause growing losses to American infrastructure and property and impede the rate of economic growth over this century." The report notes that the effects of climate change are already being felt in communities across the country, including more frequent and intense extreme weather and climate-related events. But it says that projections of future catastrophe could change if society works to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and "to adapt to the changes that will occur". Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action. Brenda Ekwurzel, director of climate science at the Union of Concerned Scientists and one of the report's authors, said the report made it clear that climate change was not "some problem in the distant future"." It's happening right now in every part of the country," she said. That view was echoed by Abigail Dillen, president of environmental group Earthjustice." While President Trump continues to ignore the threat of climate change, his own administration is sounding the alarm," she said. In October, President Trump accused climate change scientists of having a "political agenda", telling Fox News he was unconvinced that humans were responsible for the earth's rising temperatures. After taking office he announced the US would withdraw from the Paris climate change agreement, which commits another 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels. At the time, Mr Trump said he wanted to negotiate a new "fair" deal that would not disadvantage US businesses and workers. During his election campaign in 2016 Mr Trump said climate change was "a hoax". However he has since rowed back on that statement saying in a recent interview: "I don't think it's a hoax, I think there's probably a difference."A report released in October by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) - the leading international body evaluating climate change - said it could only be stopped if the world made major, and costly, changes. That means reducing global emissions of CO2 by 45% from 2010 levels by 2030, and reducing coal use to almost zero and using up to seven million sq km (2.7 million square miles) for land energy crops. If the world fails to act, the researchers warned, there would be some significant and dangerous changes to our world, including rising sea levels, significant impacts on ocean temperatures and acidity, and the ability to grow crops such as rice, maize and wheat.	True
309	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-05	hat's the environmental injustice and racism that we're dealing with, and my plan would equip Americans with the tools to fight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what is right now a tremendous injustice," he said.	Julian Castro Climate Plan Addresses 'Environmental Injustice and Racism' "You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities.	They're the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis," he said during the CNN town hall."	"Frankly, I connect the dot to places like Flint, Michigan, and I know that too oftentimes, it's people who are poor, communities of color, who take the brunt of storms that are getting more frequent and powerful."	e need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air," he said.		Julian Castro Climate Plan Addresses 'Environmental Injustice and Racism' "You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities. They're often communities of color. They're the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis," he said during the CNN town hall." e know that this climate crisis is going to affect all Americans and all folks around the world, [but] we also know that it's going to hit some people particularly hard — people that are the first people to get affected," he said. Castro said that after he announced his campaign, he first went to San Juan, Puerto Rico, to make sure that they could recover from Hurricane Maria."  think about poor communities along the east coast," he said. "Frankly, I connect the dot to places like Flint, Michigan, and I know that too oftentimes, it's people who are poor, communities of color, who take the brunt of storms that are getting more frequent and powerful." He said his climate plan calls for "new civil rights legislation" to address "environmental injustice," including making sure people could file lawsuits against polluters." e need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air," he said. He said as former Housing and Urban Development secretary in the Obama administration, he found out that 70 percent of HUD-funded public or subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site." hat's the environmental injustice and racism that we're dealing with, and my plan would equip Americans with the tools to fight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what is right now a tremendous injustice," he said. He said to pay for his plan, he would create a "carbon pollution fee" on corporations who are "industrial-scale polluters."	True
426	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-03-02	Scrapping the only federal rules on coal ash presents a major problem  in the face of storms, floods and other extreme weather made more frequent and intense by climate change.	They face contaminated drinking water, toxic dust in the air, and serious health threats just because the EPA is choosing to side with polluters over the public."	Gutting the EPA's rules on coal ash pollution takes some pressure off the utilities, but thrusts the industry back into the sort of "regulatory uncertainty" Pruitt vowed to alleviate.	Yet, two years later, the company is still battling environmentalists and regulators in the state as the utility seeks to pass the cleanup costs onto ratepayers in the form of a price hike.	Coal ash in particular has long been a hot-button issue in the utility industry.	his is the second biggest toxic pollution threat in our country, and we need to clean it up – not make things easier for polluters," Earthjustice attorney Lisa Evans said in a statement. <sep> In 2014, before the EPA passed its coal ash rule, the American Coal Ash Association, a trade group, complained about "regulatory uncertainty that has impeded the beneficial use of coal ash for half a decade." <sep> The organization of some 80 utilities warned that regulating coal ash disposal would "result in significant economic and operational impacts to coal-fired power generation," and could even force power plants to shut down. <sep> Last year, the Utility Solid Waste Activities Group petitioned the EPA to roll back the Obama-era coal ash rule, calling it "burdensome, inflexible, and often impracticable." <sep> "People living near more than a thousand toxic coal ash sites are at risk. <sep> 	Scott Pruitt Just Gutted Rules To Fight The Nation's 'Second Biggest Toxic Pollution Threat' The EPA's announcement makes no mention of the risks coal ash poses to human health and the environment. Rather, the agency justified its move by noting it is expected to save the utility sector between $31 and $100 million annually." oday's coal ash proposal embodies EPA's commitment to our state partners by providing them with the ability to incorporate flexibilities into their coal ash permit programs based on the needs of their states," Pruitt said in a statement. Coal-fired power plants in the United States produce roughly 140 million tons of coal ash per year, containing toxic heavy metals such as arsenic, lead, selenium and other carcinogenic substances. The waste product is typically stored in wet ponds, nearly 46 percent of which operated without liners to prevent hazardous chemicals from seeping into groundwater, according to 2012 data released by the EPA. Living within a mile of a wet coal ash storage pond poses a greater health threat than smoking a pack of cigarettes a day, raising the risk of cancer to one in 50, an EPA study from 2010 found. Children are particularly at risk of learning disabilities, birth defects, asthma and cancer, with 1.54 million living near such storage sites, according to EPA data cited by the Sierra Club." his is the second biggest toxic pollution threat in our country, and we need to clean it up – not make things easier for polluters," Earthjustice attorney Lisa Evans said in a statement. "People living near more than a thousand toxic coal ash sites are at risk. They face contaminated drinking water, toxic dust in the air, and serious health threats just because the EPA is choosing to side with polluters over the public." In 2014, the EPA catalogued 158 cases where coal ash compromised water quality, including 22 that involved recycled waste product. And a government study in 2012 estimated that the damage to fish and wildlife at 21 disposal sites came at a cost of more than $2.3 billion, "enough money to construct 155 landfills with state-of-the-art composite liners and leachate collection systems." The rule change marks the Trump administration's latest rollback of clean water regulations  at a time when drinking water contamination crises are proliferating across the country. In February 2017, less than a month after taking office, President Donald Trump signed a bill to allow coal companies to dump waste into streams. In June, the EPA moved to repeal the 2015 Waters of the U.S. rule that extended 1972 Clean Water Act protections to roughly 20 million acres of wetlands and streams. The agency formally suspended the rule on Jan. 31. Scrapping the only federal rules on coal ash presents a major problem  in the face of storms, floods and other extreme weather made more frequent and intense by climate change. When Hurricane Maria made landfall over Puerto Rico last year, flood waters swelled the river in the city of Guayama, wreaking havoc on the city's 42,000 residents and distributing its five-story-tall tower of coal ash. Coal ash in particular has long been a hot-button issue in the utility industry. In 2014, Duke Energy, one of the country's biggest power companies, spilled nearly 39,000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River, causing one of North Carolina's biggest environmental disasters in its history. In 2016, then Gov. Pat McCrory (R) signed a bill that dramatically watered down legislation forcing Duke to clean up its coal ash pits without requiring the company to excavate the waste or provide clean water to residents near the pond. Yet, two years later, the company is still battling environmentalists and regulators in the state as the utility seeks to pass the cleanup costs onto ratepayers in the form of a price hike. In a separate legal fight over coal ash, the Tennessee Valley Authority, the nation's biggest public utility, last month appealed a federal judge's order to clean up decades of coal ash environmentalists say poisoned water in the Volunteer State. Eighteen states and an alliance of big corporate interests urged an appeals court to overturn the decision last month. Gutting the EPA's rules on coal ash pollution takes some pressure off the utilities, but thrusts the industry back into the sort of "regulatory uncertainty" Pruitt vowed to alleviate. In 2014, before the EPA passed its coal ash rule, the American Coal Ash Association, a trade group, complained about "regulatory uncertainty that has impeded the beneficial use of coal ash for half a decade." It's unclear whether Pruitt's new rule promotes recycling coal ash for other uses. Coal ash can be used to pave roads, though the environmentalists say even that poses pollution risks. And last year, Purdue University researchers announced new technology to sift rare earth elements ― highly-valued components used in electronics and renewable energy hardware ― out of coal ash waste. Thomas Adams, executive director of the American Coal Ash Association, said he hopes the next part of the EPA's announcement will include changing a rule that mandates companies to go through a risk evaluation when stockpiling more than 12,400 tons of coal ash for anything other than road projects. The EPA set the threshold in 2015 based on what Adams called an "arithmetic error" that he argued hurts the market for using coal ash in cement manufacturing or to fill structures such as building foundations. He said he hopes the EPA will raise the limit to 75,000 tons. Thursday's announcement is part of a broader effort by the Trump administration to end a perceived "war" on coal waged by the Obama administration. Last year, the Utility Solid Waste Activities Group petitioned the EPA to roll back the Obama-era coal ash rule, calling it "burdensome, inflexible, and often impracticable." The organization of some 80 utilities warned that regulating coal ash disposal would "result in significant economic and operational impacts to coal-fired power generation," and could even force power plants to shut down.	True
270	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-07	"And the fact of the matter is that — what we talk about is, what are we going to do about those corporations?	What have we done?	'm also like actively doing something to try to combat this climate crisis as it stands.	But we have to we can fundamentally change things in the next 10 years, though, so that we set a path?	And is the science increases, we may be able to move more quickly.	ow can we trust that you're going to act on climate — on the climate crisis — if you're still attending fundraisers that fossil fuel executives are attending?" <sep> 	Joe Biden Promises Environmentalist: 'Look into My Eyes; I Guarantee You, We Are Going to End Fossil Fuel' Biden took questions from a group in New Castle, New Hampshire, Friday. One woman associated with the environmental group 350 New Hampshire Action, Rebecca Beaulieu, asked Biden how voters can trust him if he continues to associate himself with fossil fuel executives." ow can we trust that you're going to act on climate — on the climate crisis — if you're still attending fundraisers that fossil fuel executives are attending?" Beaulieu asked, according to the Daily Mail. Video shows Biden walking over to the woman, taking her hand, and making a solemn promise to "end fossil fuel … before 2050, God willing." Kiddo, I want you to just take a look. I want you to look into my eyes," Biden began."  guarantee you, I guarantee you, we are going to end fossil fuel, and I am not going to cooperate with them. Before 2050, God willing," Biden continued, adding that 2030 is not a realistic goal:No it can't be done by 2030. No, not one single person is arguing it can be done by that. But it can be done by 2050. Maybe 2045? And is the science increases, we may be able to move more quickly. But we have to we can fundamentally change things in the next 10 years, though, so that we set a path? I promise you, I promise you. OK. Beaulieu, 24, said she "wasn't expecting" that kind of response from Biden and described it as "patronizing." Just a little patronizing, because I want to be an adult at the table when it comes to conversations about climate, and what we're going to do about it, and I don't want to be like someone who's sitting on the sidelines waiting for other people to act," she said, according to the Daily Mail." 'm also like actively doing something to try to combat this climate crisis as it stands. Being called a kid is a little patronizing when I'm trying to do so much work," she added. She also said she was unsatisfied with Biden's refusal to bend his 2050 goal." ut I hope that he takes the climate crisis as seriously as he tried to make it seem and that if he's going to keep moving forward with his plans, he needs to reevaluate because 2050 is too late," she said. Biden recently came under fire for attending a fundraiser hosted by Andrew Goldman, a founder of the natural gas company Western LNG. The former vice president dismissed concerns, telling viewers of CNN's climate change town hall Wednesday that Goldman is "not a fossil fuel executive." He is not a fossil fuel executive," Biden said. "And the fact of the matter is that — what we talk about is, what are we going to do about those corporations? What have we done?""And everywhere along the way — for example, I've argued and pushed for us suing those executives who are engaged in pollution, those companies engaged in pollution," he added. "I've never walked away from that."	False
467	vox	left_bias	2018-12-06	So in theory, an aging power plant could get some upgrades that would extend its operating life but would also allow it to be held to the weaker greenhouse gas limit.	This would have likely required new coal plants to install carbon capture technologies to limit some of their emissions.	Where this proposal could make a difference is in extending the lives of existing plants, Duffy explained.	The rollback]'s an international signal that we're not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously," said Jay Duffy, an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force.	But the coal industry argued in court that these technologies are too expensive and immature to deploy at scale, so the new standard is too difficult to meet.	As we've pointed out over and over again, the coal industry in the United States has been floundering for years, and there's little Trump can do to stop it. <sep> 	The EPA plans to lift greenhouse gas limits on coal power plants The Environmental Protection Agency is expected to roll back more regulations on coal-fired power plants Thursday. It's a striking move for two big reasons: No new coal plants are being built in the US, and the EPA itself (along with 12 other federal agencies) recently put out a sweeping report detailing the need to reduce emissions from fossil fuels because of the grave threat of climate change. Axios reported this week that on Thursday afternoon the agency will announce its intent to loosen Obama-era restrictions on how much carbon dioxide new coal power plants can emit. Known as the New Source Performance Standards, a provision under the Clean Air Act, the rule established in 2015 said coal plants couldn't emit more than 1,400 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt-hour. This would have likely required new coal plants to install carbon capture technologies to limit some of their emissions. But the coal industry argued in court that these technologies are too expensive and immature to deploy at scale, so the new standard is too difficult to meet. The lawsuit against the New Source Performance Standard was suspended once the EPA announced last year that it was looking to revise the rule. According to the New York Times, the EPA wants to relax the limit to 1,900 pounds of CO2 per MWh. These weaker standards come after an EPA proposal in August to replace another Obama regulation, the Clean Power Plan, which targets existing power plants. The replacement, the Affordable Clean Energy rule, would lead to 1,400 additional premature deaths each year by 2030, according to EPA's own calculations. Weakening pollution rules for existing and new coal-fired power plants is part of the Trump Administration's strategy to resurrect the decrepit US coal industry, which has been shrinking and hemorrhaging jobs for decades. But it's not regulations that are hurting the US coal industry; it's competition. Natural gas and renewables are increasingly cheaper than coal. With energy demand projected to stay level, that means it's coal that's going to yield. However, the Trump's policies stand to slow the transition toward cleaner sources of energy at a time when scientists are warning that the world may have as little as 12 years to act to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius since the industrial revolution. Even as nations are gathering in Poland this week to discuss how to implement the Paris climate agreement, the US delegation plans to host a panel touting the virtues of fossil fuels, the biggest sources of greenhouse gas emissions that drive climate change." The rollback]'s an international signal that we're not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously," said Jay Duffy, an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force. As we've pointed out over and over again, the coal industry in the United States has been floundering for years, and there's little Trump can do to stop it. In 2018 alone, 20 coal-fired power plants have closed or are scheduled to shut down. Overall coal power generation capacity has fallen by one-third since 2010. And coal consumption is at its lowest level since 1979. Meanwhile coal mining jobs have cratered from a high of more than 800,000 in the 1920s to roughly 76,000 today. The EPA's latest proposal only affects new coal power plants. The last new coal plant to come online in the US was the 600-megawatt John W. Turk, Jr. Power Plant in Arkansas back in 2012. It's actually one of the most high-tech, most efficient coal power plants in the country. But with a $1.8 billion price tag, it was the most expensive project in Arkansas history. Duffy pointed out that the Turk plant emits about 1,725 pounds of CO2 per megawatt hour, so it's already beating the EPA's proposed benchmarks. It's likely that with current technology, any hypothetical new coal power plant would have to do almost nothing to cut its greenhouse gas emissions, rendering the new regulation meaningless." t's nothing burger," he said. "It's a no-standard standard." Yet coal plants are closing everywhere, and no new ones are even on the drawing board. In fact, environmental groups can't even sue to block the proposal at this point, since there is no plant in the works that could potentially violate the Obama-era greenhouse gas limits. No harm, no foul. However, environmental groups are ready to litigate if the proposal becomes finalized. Where this proposal could make a difference is in extending the lives of existing plants, Duffy explained. There's a quirk in EPA regulations that says that if you modify an existing coal plant enough, it can be considered as a new plant. So in theory, an aging power plant could get some upgrades that would extend its operating life but would also allow it to be held to the weaker greenhouse gas limit. Taken in tandem with all of the other Trump proposals to boost coal — relaxed rules on stream protection, coal ash, and mercury — as well as curbing incentives for clean energy, it adds up to a prolonging of the steady demise of coal power in the United States. Correction: An earlier version of this story said that environmental groups could not sue to block the EPA's latest New Source Performance Standard rule. Groups can sue once the proposal is finalized as a rule. However, they can't sue while the rule is in the proposal stage and there are no power plants seeking to implement the proposal.	False
2	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-01-22	Yet, IPCC report authors framed this as a problem of "political will," not economics and technology.	However, many experts looking at the IPCC's report saw it as infeasible to completely overhaul the global ecology in 12 years, and there are serious questions about the accuracy of U.N. climate models.	(RELATED: Another Headline-Grabbing Ocean Warming Study Is Full Of 'Factual Errors And Misleading Statements,' Scientist Says)And in the months since that report, news has been inundated with headlines warning it's "worse than we thought" or the world's ice sheets are reaching a "tipping point."	That U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report examined what would need to be done in order to limit future global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2100.	That's the line activists and many politicians have taken up in the months since the IPCC's report.		Ocasio-Cortez's Climate Alarm Isn't Shocking. She's Just Repeating Months Of Media Narrative Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's claim the "world is gonna end in 12 years" shouldn't come as a shock to anyone because she's only repeating the same doomsday narrative pushed by some scientists and news outlets for months. In fact, Ocasio-Cortez followed up her remarks from Monday night with a couple tweets doubling down on her 12-year warning, but also showing she didn't make it up. The freshman Democrat pointed to a Vox article warning "we have just 12 years to limit devastating global warming" and a Guardian article claiming "[w]e have 12 years to limit climate change catastrophe" — both articles were based on a United Nations report from October 2018. That U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report examined what would need to be done in order to limit future global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2100. The report was mandated by the Paris climate accord. The IPCC reported greenhouse gas emissions would need to fall 45 percent below 2010 levels by 2030, and then reach zero by 2050 for a 66 percent chance of keeping projected warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. (RELATED: Another Headline-Grabbing Ocean Warming Study Is Full Of 'Factual Errors And Misleading Statements,' Scientist Says)And in the months since that report, news has been inundated with headlines warning it's "worse than we thought" or the world's ice sheets are reaching a "tipping point." The most widely reported climate study in 2018 warned we were on track for a "hothouse Earth." Nearly ever natural disaster in 2018 were tied to global warming in some way, from California's devastating wildfires to hurricanes Florence and Michael. All the news stories stressing climate alarm spurred calls for action on global warming. However, many experts looking at the IPCC's report saw it as infeasible to completely overhaul the global ecology in 12 years, and there are serious questions about the accuracy of U.N. climate models. Yet, IPCC report authors framed this as a problem of "political will," not economics and technology. The report itself says "there is no documented historic precedent" for the sweeping changes needed to fight global warming. That's the line activists and many politicians have taken up in the months since the IPCC's report. Indeed, Ocasio-Cortez said global warming is her generation's World War II. And what preceded World War II? The New Deal. Ocasio-Cortez now wants a Green New Deal to move the U.S. away from fossil fuels and address a variety of injustices she sees in our current economic system." nd I think for younger people looking at this are more like, how are we saying let's take it easy when 3,000 Americans died last year, how are we saying let's take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system?" Ocasio-Cortez said at an event in New York City Monday night. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
551	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-02-20	Many of these legal problems have stemmed from the sheer pace of the rollbacks – required public comment periods have been set aside in some cases, any rationale for repeal or delay has been missing in others.	Ironically for Pruitt, who has touted a "back to basics" approach rooted safely within the confines of the law, this rapidly executed agenda has run into a thicket of legal problems, causing the administration to admit defeat in several cases.	The EPA now faces a fresh wave of opposition as it looks to craft replacements for major Obama rules such as the clean power plan, which sought to limit emissions from coal-fired power plants, and the waters of the US rule, which greatly expanded clean water protections.	This was followed by a hasty retreat in August when the EPA agreed to not delay new standards to reduce smog-causing air pollutants, the day after 15 states and environment groups sued.	They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law."	It was aimed not at sooty power plants or emissions-intensive trucks, but dentists. <sep> If the proposed replacements are, as expected, far less onerous on industry than current iterations, environmentalists and around a dozen states, headed by New York and California, will be poised to further jam up the process in the courts." <sep> e've already beaten back several of this administration's toxic policies, from energy efficiency rollbacks to smog," Schneiderman said. <sep> "Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court." <sep> 	'Sloppy and careless': courts call out Trump blitzkrieg on environmental rules In its first year in office, the Trump administration introduced a solitary new environmental rule aimed at protecting the public from pollution. It was aimed not at sooty power plants or emissions-intensive trucks, but dentists. Every year, dentists fill Americans' tooth cavities with an amalgam that includes mercury. About 5 tons of mercury, a dangerous toxin that can taint the brain and the nervous system, are washed away from dental offices down drains each year. In Trump's first day in the White House, the administration told the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to withdraw an Obama-era plan that would require dentists to prevent this mercury from getting into waterways. But in June, the rule was unexpectedly enacted. This apparent change of heart followed legal action filed by green groups, part of a cascade of courtroom standoffs that are starting to slow and even reverse the Trump administration's blitzkrieg of environmental regulations." he Trump administration has been sloppy and careless, they've shown significant disrespect for rule of law and courts have called them on it," said Richard Revesz, a professor at the New York University school of law."  expect we will see a number of further losses for the administration on similar grounds. If they keep showing the same disregard for the law, their attempt to repeal all these environmental regulations will go badly for them." The reversal of Obama's environmental legacy has been spearheaded by Scott Pruitt, who heads the EPA, the agency he repeatedly sued as Oklahoma attorney general. Pruitt, who accused Obama of "bending the rule of law" and federal overreach, has overseen the methodical delay or scrapping of dozens of rules curbing pollution from power plants, pesticides and vehicles. Ironically for Pruitt, who has touted a "back to basics" approach rooted safely within the confines of the law, this rapidly executed agenda has run into a thicket of legal problems, causing the administration to admit defeat in several cases. In July, a federal court ruled that the EPA couldn't suspend rules designed to curb methane emissions from new oil and gas wells. This was followed by a hasty retreat in August when the EPA agreed to not delay new standards to reduce smog-causing air pollutants, the day after 15 states and environment groups sued. Then, in December, a federal court told the EPA it couldn't delay a new standard for dangerous levels of lead in paint and dust. Other arms of the federal government have also been stymied from implementing Trump's deregulatory agenda. The US Fish and Wildlife Service, stung by a lawsuit, listed the rusty patched bumblebee as endangered in March after initially delaying the decision. And on Thursday, a federal court told the department of energy it must implement four energy efficiency regulations it was looking to scuttle. Many of these legal problems have stemmed from the sheer pace of the rollbacks – required public comment periods have been set aside in some cases, any rationale for repeal or delay has been missing in others. Opponents of the administration also believe there is a determination to expunge every vestige of Obama's environmental legacy, regardless of merit." hey are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who don't want to follow the rules," said Aaron Colangelo, the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council. "It all shows that this administration won't protect the environment unless they are sued. They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law." The EPA now faces a fresh wave of opposition as it looks to craft replacements for major Obama rules such as the clean power plan, which sought to limit emissions from coal-fired power plants, and the waters of the US rule, which greatly expanded clean water protections. If the proposed replacements are, as expected, far less onerous on industry than current iterations, environmentalists and around a dozen states, headed by New York and California, will be poised to further jam up the process in the courts." ver and over again, the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well-being of everyday Americans," said Eric Schneiderman, New York's attorney general. Schneiderman has been prolific in opposing Trump's environmental revisions, filing more than 50 lawsuits during the administration's first year to, among other things, protect the clean power plan, enforce stricter vehicle pollution standards and ensure that chlorpyrifos, a common pesticide linked to neurological harm to children, is banned." e've already beaten back several of this administration's toxic policies, from energy efficiency rollbacks to smog," Schneiderman said. "Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court."	True
113	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-01-16	In October, the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change.	EPA Nominee Andrew Wheeler Downplays Climate Threat At Testy Confirmation Hearing He refused to call the rapid warming of the planet a crisis.	Wheeler blamed the shutdown for the delay in releasing a plan to deal with toxic perfluorinated substances in drinking water.	Those increases are expected to cause up to 1,400 premature deaths per year by 2030.	2 job, Wheeler said he believed "that man has an impact on the climate, but what's not completely understood is what the impact is."		EPA Nominee Andrew Wheeler Downplays Climate Threat At Testy Confirmation Hearing He refused to call the rapid warming of the planet a crisis. He repeatedly misrepresented his own agency's findings about a rule to gut an Obama-era power plant regulation, inflating the emissions cuts the new proposal would mandate. He even mixed up two of the most important climate science reports to come out in the last three months, admitting he hadn't fully read the report co-authored by researchers at his own agency. It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPA's 15th administrator. Wheeler isn't new to the job: Last month, he became the longest-serving acting chief in the agency's history, having taken over in July when former Administrator Scott Pruitt resigned in disgrace amid mounting scandals. In November 2017, when he appeared before the Senate environment and public works committee to interview for the EPA's No. 2 job, Wheeler said he believed "that man has an impact on the climate, but what's not completely understood is what the impact is." In October, the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change. A month later, the federal government's National Climate Assessment ― a congressionally mandated report issued by 13 agencies, including the EPA ― confirmed the findings and warned of cataclysmic damage to the United States economy and human health and "by 9°F (5°C) or more by the end of this century." During Wednesday's hearing, Wheeler initially mistook the United Nations report for the National Climate Assessment. Asked about the latter, he said he "did not review the report before it came out," and that he held just one briefing meeting with his career staffers. He said the partial federal government shutdown, now its fourth week, forced him to delay future briefings. Wheeler dismissed the report this month that found U.S. emissions rose 3.4 percent last year, blaming the jump on a manufacturing and industrial surge triggered by the Trump administration's deregulatory effort. But he claimed his proposals to dramatically weaken emissions rules for vehicles and power plants ― the largest and second largest sources of climate pollution, respectively ― would provide reductions in line with the Obama-era regulations they aim to replace. When pressed about the need to cut emissions, Wheeler returned to a certain statistic over and over again, stating that the Affordable Clean Energy rule he proposed in August would deliver carbon dioxide reductions 34 percent below 2005 levels, compared to the 33 to 35 percent the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan would have provided. This is a fudged statistic, however. The EPA's own analysis shows the so-called ACE rule would actually increase CO2 emissions by 20 to 61 million tons, nitrous oxide by 14,000 to 43,000 tons and sulfur dioxide by 29,000 to 53,000 tons. Those increases are expected to cause up to 1,400 premature deaths per year by 2030. Wheeler's climate denial received some backup at Wednesday's hearing. Sen. James Inhofe (R-Okla.), who once infamously brought a snowball to the Senate floor to "debunk" climate change, submitted rebuttals to climate science reports from right-wing think tanks such as the Competitive Enterprise Institute and the Cato Institute, both of which are funded by the fossil-fuel billionaire Koch brothers. Wheeler blamed the shutdown for the delay in releasing a plan to deal with toxic perfluorinated substances in drinking water. Over the past few years, the chemicals, known as PFAS and linked to cancer and thyroid disease, have been found in water sources across the country. Wheeler, however, declined to commit to a two-year deadline for setting a drinking water standard for PFAS. Republican senators praised Wheeler's proposal to replace another Obama-era rule that sought to safeguard drinking water for millions of Americans by extending federal protections to 2 million miles of streams and 20 million acres of wetlands. Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska) even prompted Wheeler with a question about his nearly two decades working for Bob Murray, the influential and bombastic baron who runs the nation's largest privately owned coal company. Wheeler used his response to note that the last four years of his time working for Murray were spent advocating for miners' pensions. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) brought out some visual aids to question Wheeler further about his relationship with Murray ― including a poster-sized printout of a photo leaked from a March 2017 meeting between Murray and Energy Secretary Rick Perry, where the coal executive provided a detailed wish list of policies to the administration. That meeting ended, as another photo showed, with a hug between Perry and Murray. Wheeler is seen sitting beside Murray in the picture.	True
137	cnn	left_bias	2019-10-08	Violent crime—including dangerous gangs, over-crowded schools, the appearance of diseases once vanquished from the western world, escalating hospital costs, and an overwhelming demand for government services!"	"These are the new problems being faced by small, cash-strapped cities and towns all across America.	You see, the problems Hazleton or Valley Park faces could be in your community next because illegal immigration is spreading like a cancer," Pendley wrote.	Despite the total absence of credible scientific evidence, the media is convinced and is attempting to convince us that we have global warming, an Ozone hole and acid rain and that it is all man's fault," he added.	Despite the total absence of credible scientific evidence, the media is convinced and is attempting to convince us that we have global warming, an Ozone hole and acid rain and that it is all man's fault," Pendley said in a 1992 speech to the Heritage Foundation.	Pendley went on to say if "massive immigration" continued "you and I will permanently lose the country we love""Frustrated by the failure of the federal government to address the issue of illegal immigration and the problems it poses for the tiny, cash-strapped city -- including violent crime, crowded schools, hospital costs, and the demand for services—the City Council, at the request of Mayor Lou Barletta, adopted legislation to deal with these problems." <sep> "Partly this is because Mexico and some other governments promote and encourage illegal immigration into our country." <sep> "No wonder the environmental message has became the cause of choice for the elitists of Hollywood. <sep> I'm focused now on implementing the policy priorities of the Trump administration and Secretary Bernhardt within the authorities and mission given this agency by Congress. <sep> 	Senior Interior official denied there was an ozone hole and compared undocumented immigrants to cancer (CNN) The acting director of the federal agency responsible for managing one in every 10 acres of land in the United States has repeatedly denied the existence of climate change and falsely claimed in a 1990s speech there was no credible evidence of a hole in the ozone layer. William Perry Pendley was appointed by Interior Secretary David Bernhardt as the acting director of the Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management in July 2019. Prior to his appointment, Pendley was a conservative activist, commentator, lawyer and served as the longtime president of the conservative Mountain States Legal Foundation." Despite the total absence of credible scientific evidence, the media is convinced and is attempting to convince us that we have global warming, an Ozone hole and acid rain and that it is all man's fault," Pendley said in a 1992 speech to the Heritage Foundation. In other comments uncovered during a CNN KFile review of his social media activity, writings and public appearances, Pendley cited an anti-Muslim figure to claim Islam was at war with the United States, compared undocumented immigrants to cancer and blamed them for diseases. Asked about his comments and if he still holds his views, Pendley said his views were being taken out of context and were irrelevant to his role at BLM." As someone in the public arena for nearly four decades, I've given countless statements and written scores of articles on a wide variety of topics. Cherrypicking a few of them out of context is neither useful nor connected to my current position. I'm focused now on implementing the policy priorities of the Trump administration and Secretary Bernhardt within the authorities and mission given this agency by Congress. My personal views are irrelevant in this context." 'Environmentalism' is indeed the last refuge of the left, the last safe haven for those who trust, not the people, but big government, those who seek to place the power in the hands of federal bureaucrats," Pendley said. "No wonder the environmental message has became the cause of choice for the elitists of Hollywood. It should not surprise us that they have embraced environmentalism with the same self-righteous fervor as they once embraced socialism and communism." Despite the total absence of credible scientific evidence, the media is convinced and is attempting to convince us that we have global warming, an Ozone hole and acid rain and that it is all man's fault," he added. Pendley has repeatedly denied the existence of climate change and mocked the scientific consensus around environmental issues as rooted in "bad science." I debated an environmentalist on television here in Denver and, and it's, he, she was quoting people about global warming and I said, you realize the people you're quoting just a couple of years ago were predicting global cooling on a massive scale that we would not be able to feed ourselves. And it stopped her for just a second," Pendley said. "And then she said, 'Well, it's going to be something.' And that's what the environmentalists say. It's going to be something, to quote another movie, from the movie The Fly, 'Be afraid, be very afraid.' And that's what they're preaching. They're preaching fear." At times, Pendley's denial of climate change has drifted into even more fringe claims linking the broader US environmental movement to the fall of the Soviet Union and communism." Because of the collapse of communism, because the wall has come down, because the Soviet Union is no more... the environmental movement is the last refuge of people who favor government over people," he said." Who knew? Islam's war with America started just up the road in Greeley, Colorado!," Pendley tweeted. In the article, Spencer floats unfounded conspiracies about "leftists" allying with "Islamic hardliners who adhere to Sharia, a system of laws that would have many of them executed." (New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and President Barack Obama) think -- if one can call it thinking or anything more than wishful thinking—that Americans should be afraid of terrorist attacks, not from all those who embrace radical Islam, but from their countrymen who hold very strong views on important issues of the day?," Pendley wrote. Pendley has repeatedly used extreme rhetoric to refer to undocumented immigrants." You see, the problems Hazleton or Valley Park faces could be in your community next because illegal immigration is spreading like a cancer," Pendley wrote. "Partly this is because Mexico and some other governments promote and encourage illegal immigration into our country." Pendley went on to say if "massive immigration" continued "you and I will permanently lose the country we love""Frustrated by the failure of the federal government to address the issue of illegal immigration and the problems it poses for the tiny, cash-strapped city -- including violent crime, crowded schools, hospital costs, and the demand for services—the City Council, at the request of Mayor Lou Barletta, adopted legislation to deal with these problems." Violent crime—including dangerous gangs, over-crowded schools, the appearance of diseases once vanquished from the western world, escalating hospital costs, and an overwhelming demand for government services!" Pendley wrote. "These are the new problems being faced by small, cash-strapped cities and towns all across America. The source: illegal immigrants."	False
639	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-06-03	ir quality has been increasing, pollution has been decreasing, things are getting better and asthma's getting worse," Simmons said.	Daniel Simmons, the vice president for policy at the Institute for Energy Research, noted in a quote appearing in an article by E&E News that asthma rates have been steadily worsening even though air quality has been improving."	They will have a harder time having economic growth.	Their kids will have worse asthma in the summer.	"You have this disconnect."	In 2013, USA Today reported that Earth's warming climate has caused pollen season to increase, thereby exacerbating many people's asthma. <sep> If climate change is being caused by human-produced carbon-dioxide, this could lend support to Kerry's claim about asthma. <sep> 	John Kerry makes bogus claims against Trump for pulling out of Paris Agreement In an interview on MSNBC on Thursday, former Secretary of State John Kerry said President Donald Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Accord "puts America last," is "shameful" and will hurt kids by worsening their asthma." t is a shameful moment for the United States, to have unilaterally walked away from an agreement which did not have one other country requiring us to do something," Kerry told Andrea Mitchell. "It was a voluntary program … The president was not truthful with the American people today, and the president who talked about putting America first, has now put America last." Kerry claimed Trump is not helping the "forgotten American." Trump "is not helping the forgotten American," Kerry said. "He is hurting them. Their kids will have worse asthma in the summer. They will have a harder time having economic growth. He's made us an environmental pariah in the world, and I think it is one of the most self-destructive moves I've ever seen by any president in my lifetime." Kerry's primary arguments that Trump's decision will hurt kids with asthma and damage the economy were incredibly misleading. A 2015 study by researcher Dr. Corrine Keet at John's Hopkins Children Center found no statistically significant difference in the prevalence of asthma for kids living in inner-city areas, where there is much more air pollution, and kids who live in the suburbs and rural areas. More than 23,000 children were included in the study. Daniel Simmons, the vice president for policy at the Institute for Energy Research, noted in a quote appearing in an article by E&E News that asthma rates have been steadily worsening even though air quality has been improving." ir quality has been increasing, pollution has been decreasing, things are getting better and asthma's getting worse," Simmons said. "You have this disconnect." In 2013, USA Today reported that Earth's warming climate has caused pollen season to increase, thereby exacerbating many people's asthma. If climate change is being caused by human-produced carbon-dioxide, this could lend support to Kerry's claim about asthma. Of course, scientists disagree over what has caused Earth's climate to warm over the past century, and, perhaps most importantly, increased pollen comes from increased plant growth and, as a result, increased crop yields. Should more plants and food for people and animals really be demonized?Kerry's argument that Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris Agreement will cause economic problems is equally absurd. Kerry cited in the interview the "millions" of renewable-energy jobs that have been created to help curb carbon-dioxide emissions as an example of how the Paris Agreement and its associated efforts would have a positive impact on the economy, but the truth is that the only reason the wind and solar energy industries have been able to survive is because they are heavily subsidized by taxpayers. Further, wind and solar are much more expensive forms of energy, which means Americans' power bills would continue to rise under the terms of the Paris Climate Agreement. As H. Sterling Burnett, a research fellow in climate and energy issues for The Heartland Institute, where I also work as executive editor and a research fellow, noted in a recent article on Trump's decision, "Numerous studies, including a NERA Economic Consulting report cited in Trump's announcement, showed meeting the carbon-dioxide targets imposed on the United States under the Paris agreement would force the premature closing of many of the nation's least-expensive power plants. NERA estimated meeting the nation's obligations under the agreement would cost the U.S. economy nearly $3 trillion, and by 2040, the United States would have lost 6.5 million industrial-sector jobs, including 3.1 million manufacturing jobs."	True
506	npr	left_center_bias	2018-06-13	That's causing glaciers to flow more quickly into the sea.	The melting is caused by rising ocean temperatures due to climate change.	"When we look into the ocean we find that it's too warm and the ice sheet can't withstand the temperatures that are surrounding it in the sea," he says.	Before 2010, Antarctica was contributing a relatively small proportion of the melting that is causing global sea levels to rise, says study co-leader Andrew Shepherd of the University of Leeds.	However, a period of heavy snowfall between 2005 and 2010 masked some of the immediate effects of the ice loss, accounting for the sudden, steep increase in more recent years.	Some of the estimates covered different proportions of the ice sheets, some of them covered different time periods, and all of them used different methods and so it became difficult for people who are not specialists to try to pick them apart," says Shepherd. <sep> However, he says that now the data is tracking a higher scenario, which could mean nearly 6 inches of additional sea level rise in the next century. <sep> 	Antarctica Has Lost More Than 3 Trillion Tons Of Ice In 25 Years Antarctica Has Lost More Than 3 Trillion Tons Of Ice In 25 YearsScientists have completed the most exhaustive assessment of changes in Antarctica's ice sheet to date. And they found that it's melting faster than they thought. Ice losses totaling 3 trillion tonnes (or more than 3.3 trillion tons) since 1992 have caused global sea levels to rise by 7.6 mm, nearly one third of an inch, according to a study published in Nature on Wednesday. Before 2010, Antarctica was contributing a relatively small proportion of the melting that is causing global sea levels to rise, says study co-leader Andrew Shepherd of the University of Leeds. But that has changed. "Since around 2010, 2012, we can see that there's been a sharp increase in the rate of ice loss from Antarctica. And the ice sheet is now losing three times as much ice," Shepherd adds. The annual sea level rise that's attributed to Antarctica has tripled, from 0.2mm to 0.6mm, he says." That's a big jump, and it did catch us all by surprise," Shepherd says. The melting is caused by rising ocean temperatures due to climate change. Shepherd says they've seen the most dramatic effects in West Antarctica, where the ice sheet rests on the sea bed. "When we look into the ocean we find that it's too warm and the ice sheet can't withstand the temperatures that are surrounding it in the sea," he says. That's causing glaciers to flow more quickly into the sea. East Antarctica, which is home to the South Pole, has seen considerably less melting because most of its ice is above sea level. That's "an important distinction, because it means it's insulated from changes in the ocean's temperature." This assessment, conducted by 84 scientists from 44 international organizations, is known as the Ice Sheet Mass Balance Inter-comparison Exercise (IMBIE). There have been many other estimates of how much ice has melted in Antarctica. And many of those papers showed different results." Some of the estimates covered different proportions of the ice sheets, some of them covered different time periods, and all of them used different methods and so it became difficult for people who are not specialists to try to pick them apart," says Shepherd. "So that was the motivation for originally setting up the project." The scientists combined 24 different satellite surveys, which Shepherd says provides a more complete picture of the overall ice sheet change than previous studies. "We believe that we've captured all of the different satellite records that exist on the planet," he says. To analyze the ice, the researchers use three different kinds of measurements. Satellite altimeters measure the height of the ice sheets, to see how much they are thinning or thickening over time. Another measurement records the speed of the glaciers and how they're moving into the ocean. Finally, the scientists are recording gravity measurements for Antarctica. These "tell us about changes in the earth's gravitational attraction over time and that can be related to the mass of the ice sheets overall," Shepherd says, "and they are really powerful measurements because they can add up everything across Antarctica." So what accounts for the apparent three-fold speed up in Antarctica's melting in the last five years?Shepherd says that actually, their data shows a "a progressive increase in ice loss throughout the whole 25 year time period." However, a period of heavy snowfall between 2005 and 2010 masked some of the immediate effects of the ice loss, accounting for the sudden, steep increase in more recent years. This new data creates a much starker picture of the future than previous estimates. Shepherd says until 2010, the data had been tracking a lower scenario which estimated that Antarctica "wouldn't make much of a contribution to sea level rise at all" because of the effects of higher snowfall. However, he says that now the data is tracking a higher scenario, which could mean nearly 6 inches of additional sea level rise in the next century. That could be a big deal, he says, "for anybody who lives, works and governs a coastal region." Understanding the rate of Antarctica's melting is crucial for these communities. If all of the ice in Antarctica melted, global sea levels would rise by more than 190 feet.	False
808	Fusion	left_center_bias	2017-05-25	It's simple: the more diverse the group discussing the problem is, the more comprehensive, sustainable, and creative the solutions are.	We saw some encouraging progress.	Or we could let implicit bias and systemic racism undercut any chance we have at a sustainable future.	The time has come for radical thinking, for inclusive problem-solving, for crowd-sourced innovation.	This is problem, and not just a theoretical one.	But there's still much more work to be done. <sep> It's already far outpacing our efforts to respond to the crisis of climate change. <sep> This isn't because there is not enough scientific evidence to prove the threat—there is. <sep> It's time that we own our mistakes and get real about our shortcomings. <sep> And furthermore, with the environmental challenges facing us right now—from the new energy economy to ocean acidification—we need all the creativity available to help us find pathways to clean food, water, and air. <sep> When they don't have a seat at the table, how can the movement be ready to systematically tackle issues that affect them uniquely? <sep> From Flint to Standing Rock, we've seen that communities of color are disproportionately affected by pollution and climate change. <sep> It silences the very people who often feel the greatest impact of a warming planet, even though activists of color could make or break success for this work. <sep> Overall, environmental organizations have committed to improving diversity among their staff and board since we started this work. <sep> We aren't keeping up with climate change because the environmental movement is allowing a legacy of implicit bias to constrict its leadership and strategy. <sep> California is paralyzed by drought. <sep> (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh)APIt seems like every week there's a new story about some completely unprecedented, unpredictable environmental event. <sep> It's urgent that we bring more voices into the conversation. <sep> 	To win the fight against climate change, the environmental movement needs to include leaders of color Jessica Fujan chants on the Wacker Drive during a "100 Days of Failure" protest and march, Saturday, April 29, 2016, in Chicago. Thousands of people across the U.S. are marking President Donald Trump's hundredth day in office by marching in protest of his environmental policies. (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh)APIt seems like every week there's a new story about some completely unprecedented, unpredictable environmental event. Antarctica is turning green. California is paralyzed by drought. Forests are shifting, and the first climate refugees have lost their homes. The climate is changing, and quickly. And we aren't keeping up with it. This isn't because there is not enough scientific evidence to prove the threat—there is. It isn't because the majority of Americans don't believe climate change is caused by human activity—they do. And it isn't, as has been suggested, because we've become so immune to data that numbers aren't persuasive anymore. We aren't keeping up with climate change because the environmental movement is allowing a legacy of implicit bias to constrict its leadership and strategy. By refusing to challenge the long-held belief that white environmentalists are the most informed, prepared, passionate, dedicated defenders of our planet and its natural resources, the movement silences communities of color. It silences the very people who often feel the greatest impact of a warming planet, even though activists of color could make or break success for this work. In our new report, Green 2.0 found that the environmental movement—from boards, to executive leadership, to staff—is still overwhelmingly white. Green 2.0 is an advocacy campaign that monitors and supports diversifying the racial and ethnic demography of mainstream environmental NGOs, foundations, and federal government agencies. We help hiring managers and executive search firms access the deep pipeline of qualified candidates of color, help organizations build an equitable and inclusive culture internally, and advocate for data transparency across the sector. For the past three years, we have been working to build our database of the diversity of the top 40 NGOs across the movement. In 2014, we reported their staff and leadership demographics to create the first-ever snapshot of the sector. It was that baseline that we used in the report we release today, the "Transparency Card," which evaluates what kind of change has been made. We saw some encouraging progress. Overall, environmental organizations have committed to improving diversity among their staff and board since we started this work.  It is evidenced by the number of diversity committees, managers and plans that have sprung up since 2014.  Across the movement, people of color represent 27%, 15% 24% of staff, leadership and board positions respectively in 2017. But there's still much more work to be done. More than 70% of those working in the space are white. Diversity is still seriously lacking at the senior leadership level. Two organizations—Oceana and the Pew Charitable Trusts—refused to even participate in the survey. This is problem, and not just a theoretical one. From Flint to Standing Rock, we've seen that communities of color are disproportionately affected by pollution and climate change. When they don't have a seat at the table, how can the movement be ready to systematically tackle issues that affect them uniquely? Without people of color in leadership and policymaking positions, their perspectives are less likely to be included in outcomes. And furthermore, with the environmental challenges facing us right now—from the new energy economy to ocean acidification—we need all the creativity available to help us find pathways to clean food, water, and air. It's simple: the more diverse the group discussing the problem is, the more comprehensive, sustainable, and creative the solutions are. The time has come for radical thinking, for inclusive problem-solving, for crowd-sourced innovation. We have spent decades leaving people of color out of the environmental movement. It's time that we own our mistakes and get real about our shortcomings. It's long overdue that we intentionally count how many people of color are staffing and leading the professional environmental sector. It's urgent that we bring more voices into the conversation. Or we could let implicit bias and systemic racism undercut any chance we have at a sustainable future. The planet isn't going to wait for us to get this right. It's already far outpacing our efforts to respond to the crisis of climate change. It's time we stop letting it. Whitney Tome is the Executive Director of Green 2.0	True
379	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-10-30	"With historic storms lashing our state, we must combat climate change, make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters."	strong clean energy economy combats climate change while creating good jobs and a healthy environment," said Cooper.	Some scientists said warm waters "supercharged" Florence and sea level rise made storm surge significantly worse.	Some scientists said warm waters "supercharged" Florence and sea level rise made storm surge significantly worse.	If that's the impact on future temperatures cutting emissions for the entire country would have, North Carolina's emissions cuts would have an even less significant impact.	Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man-made global warming. <sep> Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man-made global warming. <sep> Cooper also asked agencies to promote "climate adaptation" and green energy use, including wind and solar." <sep> 	North Carolina Gov Roy Cooper Says New Green Policies Will 'Lessen The Impact' Of Hurricanes North Carolina Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper signed an executive order Monday he says is meant to "combat climate change" and "lessen the impact of future natural disasters," like hurricanes. Cooper's order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles, use more wind and solar energy, and cut energy use at state-owned buildings. Cooper also asked agencies to promote "climate adaptation" and green energy use, including wind and solar."  strong clean energy economy combats climate change while creating good jobs and a healthy environment," said Cooper. "With historic storms lashing our state, we must combat climate change, make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters." The order comes more than one month after Hurricane Florence dumped record amounts of rainfall over the Carolinas after making landfall as a Category 1 storm. Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas, causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives. Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man-made global warming. Some scientists said warm waters "supercharged" Florence and sea level rise made storm surge significantly worse. (RELATED: Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado)However, not all scientists agreed. Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out that Florence formed over "abnormally cool" ocean waters, then weakened over cooler waters — the opposite of what forecasters expected." here is no reason to suggest that global warming or an 'ocean heat wave' supercharged Hurricane Florence," University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Mass said in September. "So the 'ocean heat wave' theory is obviously bogus." The order comes more than one month after Hurricane Florence dumped record amounts of rainfall over the Carolinas after making landfall as a Category 1 storm. Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas, causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives. Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man-made global warming. Some scientists said warm waters "supercharged" Florence and sea level rise made storm surge significantly worse. (RELATED: Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado)However, not all scientists agreed. Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out that Florence formed over "abnormally cool" ocean waters, then weakened over cooler waters — the opposite of what forecasters expected." here is no reason to suggest that global warming or an 'ocean heat wave' supercharged Hurricane Florence," University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Mass said in September. "So the 'ocean heat wave' theory is obviously bogus." Mass also said that "most of the major impacts of the storm was because it slowed down near the coast, causing an extended period of rain." He added there's "no credible theory of observational evidence that such slowing down has anything to do with global warming." While scientists predict continued global warming could make future hurricanes more intense, the latest United Nations climate report found that many studies showed a "decreasing trend in the global number of tropical cyclones and/or the globally accumulated cyclonic energy." Cooper, however, says his executive order will make North Carolina "more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters" by putting more electric vehicles on the road and cutting emissions. But even if Cooper's plan achieves its goal of cutting state greenhouse gas emissions, it would have virtually no impact on projected global warming, based on climate model simulations. For example, the Obama administration's pledge to cut U.S. emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 was only projected to avert 0.001 degrees Celsius of projected global warming a year. If that's the impact on future temperatures cutting emissions for the entire country would have, North Carolina's emissions cuts would have an even less significant impact.	False
229	npr	left_center_bias	2019-09-23	"We face a direct existentialthreat.	"What's really worrisome is that we need globalemissions to peak by next year, by 2020.	Humans must limit global warming to ) above preindustrial temperatures in order to avoid themost catastrophic impacts of climate change.	Indeed, average temperatures on Earth continue to rise, driving sea levelrise, more frequent and severe storms, longer heat waves and cold snaps, andmore extreme rainstorms and droughts. )	Climate change is moving faster than we are."	Currently, global emissions are on track to cause potentially catastrophicclimate change in the coming decades. <sep> associated with such disasters aremounting. <sep> Although nearly every nation on the planet, including the United States,promised to reduce their net greenhouse gas emissions when they signed the), climate scientists warnthat the cumulative pledges are nowhere near sufficient. <sep> And, even if the country's emissions start declining in thecoming years, it will likely be too slow to keep global temperatures in check. <sep> Global greenhouse gas emissionsrose in 2018, and the world is on track for potentially catastrophic climatechange in the coming decades. <sep> Global greenhouse gas emissionsrose in 2018, and the world is on track for potentially catastrophic climatechange in the coming decades. <sep> Czarek Sokolowski/APLeaders from nearly 200 countries are attending a special ) on climate change today as theyface increasing pressure from citizens around the world to cut globalgreenhouse gas emissions and slow global warming. <sep> India isalso expected to announce a plan to update its emissions promises. <sep> The summit acts as a kickoff to international climate negotiations in 2020,which is the next deadline for countries to make dramatic emissions reductionpromises under the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change. <sep> China, on the other hand, is on track to meet its commitments, which hinged onreaching peak emissions no later than 2030." <sep> 	U.N. Climate Summit Sets Stage For New National Emissions Promises A coal-fired power plant in central Poland. Global greenhouse gas emissionsrose in 2018, and the world is on track for potentially catastrophic climatechange in the coming decades. **Czarek Sokolowski/AP** ****hide caption********toggle caption****Czarek Sokolowski/APA coal-fired power plant in central Poland. Global greenhouse gas emissionsrose in 2018, and the world is on track for potentially catastrophic climatechange in the coming decades. Czarek Sokolowski/APLeaders from nearly 200 countries are attending a special ) on climate change today as theyface increasing pressure from citizens around the world to cut globalgreenhouse gas emissions and slow global warming. Currently, global emissions are on track to cause potentially catastrophicclimate change in the coming decades. The summit acts as a kickoff to international climate negotiations in 2020,which is the next deadline for countries to make dramatic emissions reductionpromises under the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change."I am appealing for leadership from politicians, from businesses andscientists and from the public everywhere," U.N. Secretary-General AntónioGuterres said when he announced the summit. "We face a direct existentialthreat. Climate change is moving faster than we are." Indeed, average temperatures on Earth continue to rise, driving sea levelrise, more frequent and severe storms, longer heat waves and cold snaps, andmore extreme rainstorms and droughts. ) associated with such disasters aremounting. Although nearly every nation on the planet, including the United States,promised to reduce their net greenhouse gas emissions when they signed the), climate scientists warnthat the cumulative pledges are nowhere near sufficient. Humans must limit global warming to ) above preindustrial temperatures in order to avoid themost catastrophic impacts of climate change. But, "right now if you take upall the pledges that governments have put forward for the Paris Agreement,we're looking at about 3.5 degrees [Celsius] of warming by 2100," explains), anassistant professor of environmental studies at Yale-NUS College in Singapore." We're way off," Hsu says. "What's really worrisome is that we need globalemissions to peak by next year, by 2020. That's really soon." China and the U.S. are the top greenhouse gas emitters in the world, and theircooperation was the crucial foundation for the Paris Agreement. Delegationsfrom both countries will attend today's U.N. summit, but their positions havediverged. In the U.S., President Trump has threatened to withdraw from the ParisAgreement, and his administration has moved to allow greater emissions frompower plants, vehicles, and oil and gas operations. Despite local climatepledges by dozens of states and hundreds of cities, "the United States, rightnow, is not on track to meet its climate change commitments under the ParisAgreement," says ), aclimate analyst at the World Resources Institute think tank. China, on the other hand, is on track to meet its commitments, which hinged onreaching peak emissions no later than 2030." There have been some indications that they could peak their emissions by2022," Hsu says. "That's not so far away. That's about eight years ahead ofschedule." And China is now a ) in renewable energy, including solar, wind and hydropower. It's a glimmer of hope in a sea of otherwise dire news. Even as the governmentinvests in clean technology, China is building ) outside its borders as part of its ). And, even if the country's emissions start declining in thecoming years, it will likely be too slow to keep global temperatures in check. Nonetheless, China is expected to be one of the countries to announce theirintention to set more drastic emissions targets at today's summit. India isalso expected to announce a plan to update its emissions promises. And someworld leaders, including the delegation from France, are expected to announcethat they intend to make drastic emissions cuts in the coming decade.	True
189	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-04-29	Problems include soils being eroded, compacted by machinery, built over, or harmed by over-watering.	This is fuelling climate change – and compromising our attempts to feed a growing world population, the authors will say.	About 3.2 billion people worldwide are suffering from degraded soils, said IPBES chairman Prof Sir Bob Watson."	Only 3% of the planet's surface is suitable for arable production and 75 billion tonnes of fertile soil is lost to land degradation every year."	There's uncertainty about the exact level of global soil degradation.	But some farmers believe they can continue to produce food by changing the way they farm to enhance the soil. <sep> Soil damage 'set to fuel climate change' Climate change can't be halted if we carry on degrading the soil, a report will say. <sep> The warning will come from the awkwardly-named IPBES – the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services - a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans. <sep> We are losing from the soil the organic carbon and this undermines agricultural productivity and contributes to climate change. <sep> In the US, some soils are being restored as forests take over poor quality land previously worked by small farmers, but others are still being degraded. <sep> Soil scientists in both the biggest Asian nations are worried that their ability to grow their own food may be compromised. <sep> This option is favoured by fans of re-wilding. <sep> All three are equally important to human wellbeing." <sep> Erosion is also a long-standing issue in the fertile Fens, where, on dry windy days, peaty soil particles sometimes form a kind of smog called the "Fen Blow". <sep> 	Soil damage 'set to fuel climate change' Climate change can't be halted if we carry on degrading the soil, a report will say. There's three times more carbon in the soil than in the atmosphere – but that carbon's being released by deforestation and poor farming. This is fuelling climate change – and compromising our attempts to feed a growing world population, the authors will say. Problems include soils being eroded, compacted by machinery, built over, or harmed by over-watering. Hurting the soil affects the climate in two ways: it compromises the growth of plants taking in carbon from the atmosphere, and it releases soil carbon previously stored by worms taking leaf matter underground. The warning will come from the awkwardly-named IPBES – the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services - a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans. The body, which is meeting this week, aims to get all the world's governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems. IPBES will formally release its report on Monday 6 May. About 3.2 billion people worldwide are suffering from degraded soils, said IPBES chairman Prof Sir Bob Watson." That's almost half of the world population. There's no question we are degrading soils all over the world. We are losing from the soil the organic carbon and this undermines agricultural productivity and contributes to climate change. We absolutely have to restore the degraded soil we've got." Governments have focused on climate change far more than they have focused on loss of biodiversity or land degradation. All three are equally important to human wellbeing." Soil expert Prof Jane Rickson from Cranfield University, UK, added: "The thin layer of soil covering the Earth's surface represents the difference between survival and extinction for most terrestrial life." Only 3% of the planet's surface is suitable for arable production and 75 billion tonnes of fertile soil is lost to land degradation every year." She said soils form at a rate of 1cm in 300 years. There's uncertainty about the exact level of global soil degradation. But the major hotspots are reported to be in South America, where forests are being felled; sub-Saharan Africa; India and China. Soil scientists in both the biggest Asian nations are worried that their ability to grow their own food may be compromised. In the US, some soils are being restored as forests take over poor quality land previously worked by small farmers, but others are still being degraded. The UK is not immune either. Some maize fields in south-west England suffer major soil loss with heavy rainfall because growing maize leaves bare soil exposed. Heavy rain is more likely under climate change. Erosion is also a long-standing issue in the fertile Fens, where, on dry windy days, peaty soil particles sometimes form a kind of smog called the "Fen Blow". Peat has a high carbon content – and a recent paper suggests there's far more carbon being lost from peatlands than previously thought. And on the chalky hills of southern England, chemical-intensive crop farming is said to have caused the loss of over a foot of soil in some places. Soils are "incredibly important" for our well-being, said Dr Joanna Clark from Reading University." We all know that crops are grown in soil, but soils are important for climate change as well. There's three times more carbon stored in soil than there is in the atmosphere. So imagine if all that carbon was released, we'd get runaway climate change. So we need to keep the carbon in the soil." The simplest way to protect soils while combating climate change is to let forests grow back. This option is favoured by fans of re-wilding. But some farmers believe they can continue to produce food by changing the way they farm to enhance the soil. Brexit could give the UK greater flexibility on how to spend public money on farming - enabling much more leeway to reward farmers for capturing carbon in the earth. But there are more than 700 soil types in the UK alone, so it won't be simple.	True
700	CNN	left_bias	2017-09-13	"Here's the issue," Pruitt said.	"To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm; versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced."	Both instead said the focus needs to be on preparedness and resiliency.	We continue to take seriously the climate change, not the cause of it, but the things we observe."	"Regardless of what causes disasters, it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences," Long told CNN.	Several key administration officials have been on message this week declining to discuss the issue and how to address the causes of global warming and increased greenhouse gas emissions. <sep> "We live in a changing world, and as the FEMA administrator said, we always have to look at not just the response, but the preparedness and the resilience," said Duke. <sep> Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm, Duke responded "I -- you know, the data, I don't know what it particularly indicates. <sep> Both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering in CNN interviews Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of hurricanes such as Harvey and Irma. <sep> "Causality is something outside of my ability to analyze right now," he said. <sep> "And I think it's important that as we come together as a country, we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response, that we are adapting properly." <sep> "The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry, which we do not have, and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection." <sep> "There's plenty of time later on to have those discussions, and I know we will because climate change is clearly a big topic for the media, but we will continue to focus our attention on the folks who need it right now." <sep> 	Trump administration doesn't want to talk about climate change Last year was the Earth's warmest recorded year, the third year in a row to set a new record for global average temperatures. Rising temperatures are likely to increase the intensity and impact of major storms, scientists say, yet in the wake of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, the Trump administration has resisted talking about climate change at all. Several key administration officials have been on message this week declining to discuss the issue and how to address the causes of global warming and increased greenhouse gas emissions. Mick Mulvaney, the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, said climate change is a "longer discussion on another day" and a "big topic for the media." I'll be more than happy to have a longer discussion on another day about climate change, man-made climate change," Mulvaney told CNN's Jake Tapper on "The Lead" Wednesday." What we are focusing on right now is taking care of the folks who survived this disaster who need our immediate help," he said. "There's plenty of time later on to have those discussions, and I know we will because climate change is clearly a big topic for the media, but we will continue to focus our attention on the folks who need it right now." Both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering in CNN interviews Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of hurricanes such as Harvey and Irma. Both instead said the focus needs to be on preparedness and resiliency. "Regardless of what causes disasters, it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences," Long told CNN. "The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry, which we do not have, and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection." Duke echoed Long's thoughts on the need for "resiliency," a term frequently used during the administration's storm response. "We live in a changing world, and as the FEMA administrator said, we always have to look at not just the response, but the preparedness and the resilience," said Duke. "And I think it's important that as we come together as a country, we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response, that we are adapting properly." Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm, Duke responded "I -- you know, the data, I don't know what it particularly indicates. We haven't had a major storm like this in a quite a while." Duke added that she had to talk to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration about whether the storms were an "anomaly year or a trend year." Global warming will likely cause tropical cyclones to intensify on average globally and add to a larger potential for destruction according to NOAA Tom Bossert, White House adviser on Homeland Security, was equally remiss to talk about the likely causes of the two hurricanes at a White House briefing Monday. "Causality is something outside of my ability to analyze right now," he said. "There's a cyclical nature to a lot of these hurricanes. We continue to take seriously the climate change, not the cause of it, but the things we observe." He added that the White House would have to perform a "trend analysis" in the future -- insinuating that hurricane systems are cyclical and not tied to global warming. President Donald Trump, who pulled the US out of the Paris climate accords earlier this year, has previously called global warming a "hoax." When asked whether Trump's personal opinion on climate change has changed at all, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said, "I don't think that it's changed over the last several weeks," adding that she remains unsure whether the President is reconsidering the Paris deal following the hurricanes. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNN in an interview about Hurricane Irma on Thursday that the time to talk about climate change isn't now -- saying the question was "insensitive." "Here's the issue," Pruitt said. "To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm; versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced." In addition to the administration's efforts to wipe mention of climate change from the federal agency websites, it has proposed cutting EPA funding intended to assist coastal communities in preparing for the impacts of climate change as well as rolled back regulations meant to advise on building against rising sea levels.	False
178	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-09-03	The duke said that what is important is "what we do to balance out" negative effects.	Carbon offsetting allows passengers to pay extra to help compensate for the carbon emissions produced from their flights.	Speaking at the launch of an eco-tourism project in Amsterdam, Prince Harry added that he balances out the impact this has on the environment.	During his opening speech, the duke said "no one is perfect" in terms of his impact on the environment.	Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe - it's generally as simple as that."		Prince Harry defends use of private jets: 'It's to keep my family safe' The Duke of Sussex has defended his use of private jets, saying he occasionally needs to ensure his family is safe. Speaking at the launch of an eco-tourism project in Amsterdam, Prince Harry added that he balances out the impact this has on the environment. The duke and his wife Meghan have faced criticism after newspapers claimed they flew privately four times in 11 days this summer. Prince Harry said he flew to the event on Tuesday commercially. At the launch of Travalyst, aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable, the duke was asked about his travel behaviour."I came here by commercial. I spend 99% of my life travelling the world by commercial," he said." Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe - it's generally as simple as that." During his opening speech, the duke said "no one is perfect" in terms of his impact on the environment. Questions have been asked about the royal couple's use of private jets and their impact following their support of environmental causes. Prince Harry has previously spoken about the importance of tackling climate change. In September's edition of Vogue - edited by Meghan - the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature, saying: "We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us, and only us." The Sussexes came under fire over the summer after taking a private flight to the home of singer Sir Elton John, in Nice. Sir Elton defended the royal couple, saying he provided them with his private plane to "maintain a high level of much-needed protection". He also said he paid to carbon offset their trip to his French home. Carbon offsetting allows passengers to pay extra to help compensate for the carbon emissions produced from their flights. The money is then invested in environmental projects - such as planting trees or installing solar panels - which reduce carbon dioxide in the air by the same amount. The duke said that what is important is "what we do to balance out" negative effects. He went on to say that he has always offset his carbon emissions and will continue to do so." In my mind it's the right thing to do and we need to make it cool," he said." We have to connect people to where that little bit of extra money is actually going." Prince Harry has spent three years working on the project alongside five co-founders - Booking. com, Ctrip, Skyscanner, TripAdvisor and Visa. He hopes it will improve conservation, environmental protection and help increase the economic benefits of tourism for local communities. Figures from accounts published in June show the royal household's carbon emissions due to business travel almost doubled last year. The increase was put down to the use of chartered flights for more overseas visits, which are planned by the Foreign Office. However, emissions savings from greener heating and lighting meant the household's overall carbon footprint stayed around the same as the previous year.	False
99	cnn	left_bias	2019-06-19	Former President Barack Obama's plan, if implemented, would have prevented 3,600 premature deaths a year, 1,700 heart attacks and 90,000 asthma attacks, according to analysis conducted by the EPA under his tenure.	"I do not dispute any administration coming in with different policies, but the challenge I think we're facing is they are really changing the rules of the road and not using sound science," McCarthy said.	The Obama Clean Power Plan was set to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which contribute to the climate crisis, by up to 32% compared to 2005 levels by the same year."	But it's unclear how much the industry can benefit, as it faces competition from cheap natural gas and renewable sources.	"There is no serious debate -- climate change is a severe threat and we ignore science at our own peril."		EPA rolls back Obama-era plan limiting coal-fired power plant emissions The move fulfills part of President Donald Trump's promise to help the coal industry, but will likely face court challenges from environmental groups and several states who see the rollback as detrimental to clean air and efforts to fight the climate crisis. Former President Barack Obama's plan, if implemented, would have prevented 3,600 premature deaths a year, 1,700 heart attacks and 90,000 asthma attacks, according to analysis conducted by the EPA under his tenure. The Obama Clean Power Plan was set to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which contribute to the climate crisis, by up to 32% compared to 2005 levels by the same year." We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach," EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday. In an initial announcement about the proposal last summer, the Trump EPA labeled Obama's plan as "overly prescriptive and burdensome." Instead, the administration says the plan rule "instead empowers states, promotes energy independence, and facilitates economic growth and job creation," the release stated. RELATED: More coal-fired power plants have closed under Trump than in Obama's first term Democrats are betting big on big plans for 2020 Obama's Clean Power Plan was challenged by several lawsuits from industry groups and conservative-led states. In 2016, the Supreme Court blocked the regulation, but some plants had already started to work on reducing pollution. The new plan, which EPA is calling the Affordable Clean Energy rule, is designed to boost the struggling coal industry but also likely increase carbon emissions nationwide. EPA argues that any comparison to the Obama rule is incongruous because it was never implemented. "The Affordable Clean Energy rule -- ACE -- gives states the regulatory certainty they need to continue to reduce emissions and provide affordable and reliable energy for all Americans," Wheeler said. "Unlike the CPP, the ACE rule adheres to the four corners of the Clean Air Act. EPA sets the best system of emission reductions and then states set the standards of performance." But it's unclear how much the industry can benefit, as it faces competition from cheap natural gas and renewable sources. US coal consumption has plunged 39% to the lowest level in 40 years, according to the US Energy Information Administration. RELATED: America's renewable energy capacity is now greater than coal New York Attorney General Letitia James said her state and others will go to court. "Given its clear violation of the Clean Air Act, I intend to sue the EPA over this "Dirty Power" rule and look forward to collaborating with other states and cities in taking action to protect all Americans from the increasingly disastrous impacts of climate change," James said in a statement. "Connecticut is in close coordination with states across the nation and we are prepared to take legal action to block this measure," the state's attorney general, William Tong. "There is no serious debate -- climate change is a severe threat and we ignore science at our own peril." At a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing last week about the direction of the EPA, former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy -- who finalized the Clean Power Plan under Obama -- said she believes the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule, as well as other proposed rules the agency has made since Trump took office, undermines "the science and the law in how they're trying to roll back those rules." "I do not dispute any administration coming in with different policies, but the challenge I think we're facing is they are really changing the rules of the road and not using sound science," McCarthy said. "They are not looking at cost benefits. They are trying to inflate the cost and lower the benefits in order to justify rules that simply don't make sense under the law." This story is breaking and will be updated.	True
297	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-02-12	It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	The mayor said he had challenged the city's Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer: "Instead of saying all the reasons why not, get to a reason as to why."	Ironically, the switch from coal to natural gas over the past decade has enabled the U.S. economy to grow while reducing emissions over the long run.	The bill does not explain how those benefits will be paid for, nor how the renewable energy goals will be achieved, given that renewables currently provide less than 20% of the country's energy.	"More gas for electricity has been our most effective weapon at combating climate change," wrote RealClearEnergy editor Jude Clemente last year.		Eric Garcetti Declares 'Green New Deal' in L.A., Cancels Natural Gas Plants; Officials Doubt 'Keeping the Lights On' Instead, the city will look for energy from renewable sources, including wind and solar, he decided." his is the Green New Deal … Not in concept, not in the future, but now," Garcetti said, as quoted by the Los Angeles Times. He made the decision despite the fact that "top staffers have argued in recent months that the gas plants are critical to keeping the lights on in the city," the Times noted. The term "Green New Deal" refers to a bill introduced by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) last week, which proposes moving the entire U.S. economy to renewable energy in the next ten years. The plan also aims to provide every American with a guaranteed "job with a family-sustaining wage, adequate family and medical leave, paid vacations, and retirement security to all people." The bill does not explain how those benefits will be paid for, nor how the renewable energy goals will be achieved, given that renewables currently provide less than 20% of the country's energy. Environmentalists are also opposed to using one of those renewable sources, hydroelectric power, because of concerns about environmental damage caused by dams. California has a law already in place mandating a shift to 100% renewable sources — but by 2045, not 2030. It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal. In his comments, Garcetti slammed natural gas as an energy source: "[N]ow is the time to start the beginning of the end of natural gas." Ironically, the switch from coal to natural gas over the past decade has enabled the U.S. economy to grow while reducing emissions over the long run. "More gas for electricity has been our most effective weapon at combating climate change," wrote RealClearEnergy editor Jude Clemente last year. Garcetti pledged to replace L.A.'s natural gas plants with wind and solar energy, but offered no plans describing how the city would do so, nor whether it would be able to meet the energy needs of an expanding city. Southern California already struggles to provide electricity to consumers during heat waves, when air conditioning use is at a maximum, and prices soar. In addition, utilities have begun shutting down power lines during high winds for fear of starting wildfires. During a natural gas leak in Porter Ranch in 2016, L.A. authorities worried that the temporary closure of one natural gas plant could lead to power outages. Nevertheless, Eric Garcetti was bullish on a future without fossil fuels — even without a plan to replace them. The mayor said he had challenged the city's Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer: "Instead of saying all the reasons why not, get to a reason as to why." Garcetti will leave office in 2022. The first of the three plants to be replaced will be retired in 2024. Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.	False
193	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2019-02-07	"Small, incremental policy solutions are not enough."	Our first step is to define the problem and define the scope of the solution," Ocasio-Cortez told reporters during a Thursday afternoon press conference for her newly-introduced proposal, which was quickly backed by Democratic presidential hopefuls Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker.	The resolution includes plans to decarbonize the economy, reduce greenhouse gases, make sure low-income and minority communities benefit, create a federal jobs guarantee, provide universal health care and make investments in infrastructure.	But on the other, it could put candidates in a difficult position when pressed on the costs and impact on certain jobs and industries.	The resolution introduced by Ocasio-Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey, a Democrat, is broad and light on specifics, and seen more as a roadmap for overhauling the economy than a concrete piece of legislation.	Bolt says the environment ranks among the top three issues for its members. <sep> The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates. <sep> "A third principle — a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past." <sep> Several contenders vying for the Democatic nomination have expressed support for the underlying principles of the sweeping resolution to combat climate change, and activist groups energized by the November midterm election wins have been pressuring candidates to sign on as co-sponsors." <sep> Its aspirational goals will help our country combat climate change through clean and renewable energy, create millions of new jobs in the process, and safeguard our environment for generations to come." <sep> On one hand, it becomes a kind of "catch-all" way to talk about the environment, jobs and economic fairness, issues at the forefront of the party's primary. <sep> It will be one of several or maybe many suggestions that we receive," Pelosi told Politico in an interview. <sep> 	Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez introduces 2020 policy test with Green New Deal Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez isn't old enough to run for president. But the freshman congresswoman from New York introduced a Green New Deal resolution on Thursday that is already emerging as a key policy test for 2020 Democratic candidates." Our first step is to define the problem and define the scope of the solution," Ocasio-Cortez told reporters during a Thursday afternoon press conference for her newly-introduced proposal, which was quickly backed by Democratic presidential hopefuls Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker. "Small, incremental policy solutions are not enough." Several contenders vying for the Democatic nomination have expressed support for the underlying principles of the sweeping resolution to combat climate change, and activist groups energized by the November midterm election wins have been pressuring candidates to sign on as co-sponsors." We are going to be pressuring all the 2020 contenders, especially the senators, to co-sponsor the bill," Stephen O'Hanlon, a spokesperson for the Sunrise Movement, a climate change group that staged a high-profile sit-in in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office in November which Ocasio-Cortez attended, told CBS News. "It will make clear who is just using it as a buzzword and who is taking it seriously." Progressive activists are "extremely supportive of the Green New Deal and think of it as the gold standard plan on climate, and expect their presidential candidates to be treating it as such," said Chad Bolt, associate policy director of Indivisible, a grassroots resistance group. Bolt says the environment ranks among the top three issues for its members. The resolution introduced by Ocasio-Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey, a Democrat, is broad and light on specifics, and seen more as a roadmap for overhauling the economy than a concrete piece of legislation. The resolution includes plans to decarbonize the economy, reduce greenhouse gases, make sure low-income and minority communities benefit, create a federal jobs guarantee, provide universal health care and make investments in infrastructure. The Green New Deal proposal is named after President Franklin Roosevelt's sweeping "New Deal" economic and labor reforms during the Great Depression. It's aimed a transforming the American economy by ending its dependence on fossil fuels, investing heavily in renewable energy like solar and wind and sparking large-scale job-creation. Some proposals have set the goal to converting the entire U.S. economy to renewable energy within 12 years and eliminating the carbon footprint by 2030. The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates. On one hand, it becomes a kind of "catch-all" way to talk about the environment, jobs and economic fairness, issues at the forefront of the party's primary. But on the other, it could put candidates in a difficult position when pressed on the costs and impact on certain jobs and industries. The debate over Medicare-for-All has already shown the kinds of risks and rewards candidates face. Republicans have branded the proposal as a costly fringe policy goal, and many centrist Democrats have not backed the initiative. Pelosi referred to it Thursday morning as a "suggestion" and the "green dream." It will be one of several or maybe many suggestions that we receive," Pelosi told Politico in an interview. "The green dream or whatever they call it, nobody knows what it is, but they're for it right?"Later in the morning, Pelosi said she had not seen the proposal. "I do know its enthusiastic and I welcome all the enthusiasm that is out there," she told reporters during her weekly press conference. Pelosi also named the nine Democratic members of the new Select Committee on the Climate Crisis — and notably left Ocasio-Cortez off the list. The New York Democrat said Pelosi offered her a spot, but she declined it because she wanted to focus on the "legislative" side of climate policy. Despite some hesitation within the party, the Democratic base sees the proposal as a way for its leaders to capitalize on their new power in Washington. In a statement to CBS News on Tuesday, Congressman Raúl Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, confirmed that he will be supporting the resolution, after initially being reluctant to back it. "The Green New Deal will put the health and well-being of our communities first," Grijalva said. Its aspirational goals will help our country combat climate change through clean and renewable energy, create millions of new jobs in the process, and safeguard our environment for generations to come." Most of the Democratic presidential candidates have also broadly endorsed the idea behind the Green New Deal. Oregon Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley, who's mulling a presidential bid, said the issue should be an integral part of his party's agenda going forward. On CBSN's "Red and Blue," Merkley outlined what he believes should be the key components of a comprehensive Green New Deal." The core objectives are some things such as let's drive a fast transition from fossil fuel, carbon transmission creating energy sources to renewable energy so that we save our planet. Second principle is, let's create tens of millions of jobs as we renovate our energy economy," he said Tuesday.  "A third principle — a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past."	True
98	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-03-30	The findings made clear that market fixes alone might have worked in the 1970s, when scientists first understood the climate impacts of burning fossil fuels, but now it's too late.	Heather McGhee, senior fellow at the progressive think tank Demos"A decade of disputation [is] followed now by this incredible uptick of Republicans looking around for solutions," former Rep. Bob Inglis (R-S.C.), whose support for climate action led to his ouster in a primary challenge in 2010, said at the event, where he was the lone Republican.	For years, positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard-line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other.	That hasn't helped tamp down opposition from powerful building trades unions that rely on the pipeline and coal train industries for lucrative jobs.	Instead, she's betting the increasingly visible and deadly effects of climate change will unite a popular base so vast the market fundamentalists in both parties who oppose the kind of New Deal-era, big-government policies needed to match the scope of the climate crisis will fall in line.	"What I'm tired of is us worrying more about the future of fossil fuels than worry about the future of fossil fuel workers." <sep> e cannot allow for the fossil fuel jobs to be better, more dignified and higher-waged with stronger labor support behind [them] than new energy jobs," she said. <sep> That same week, Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.), a loyal Trump ally, drafted a nonbinding resolution staking out a "Green Real Deal" that would acknowledge the threat climate change poses to "human health and safety" in "communities across the United States." <sep> 	Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Defiantly Promises A Green New Deal Congress Can't Refuse Reuters Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) waves at an enthusiastic crowd of hometown supporters, half of whom raised their hands when MSNBC host Chris Hayes, a fellow Bronx native, asked who was from the borough. On Tuesday, four members of the Senate's Democratic caucus joined every Republican in voting to block a resolution staking out what should be in future Green New Deal legislation. On Wednesday, conservatives' leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans, Stalinism or genocide. On Thursday night, President Donald Trump smeared the Green New Deal as "an extreme, $100 trillion government takeover" at a rally in Michigan, leading the crowd in chants of "AOC sucks." As her allies are readying primary challenges against Democrats who refuse to join the Green New Deal's 100 co-sponsors in Congress, Ocasio-Cortez said, "You don't necessarily have to replace everybody." Instead, she's betting the increasingly visible and deadly effects of climate change will unite a popular base so vast the market fundamentalists in both parties who oppose the kind of New Deal-era, big-government policies needed to match the scope of the climate crisis will fall in line. For years, positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard-line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other. Democrats regularly introduced bills to put a price on carbon dioxide emissions through a cap-and-trade scheme or a carbon tax. Tax incentives for renewable energy sources like solar and wind enjoyed bipartisan support, yet so too did subsidies for oil and gas production. Then, in October, United Nations scientists forecast average temperatures to increase at least 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit ― a catastrophic spike, likely to cost $54 trillion in damage and countless lives ― unless world governments took unprecedented measures to halve global emissions over the next decade. A month later, a congressionally mandated report by 13 federal agencies confirmed the research. The findings made clear that market fixes alone might have worked in the 1970s, when scientists first understood the climate impacts of burning fossil fuels, but now it's too late. That hasn't helped tamp down opposition from powerful building trades unions that rely on the pipeline and coal train industries for lucrative jobs. Countering the fossil fuel industry's appeal to organized labor is an uphill battle for Green New Deal advocates. Very few renewable energy jobs are unionized, and the steady march of right-to-work laws in red states over the past decade makes it difficult to envision a future in which new industries enjoy the same labor precedents as older ones. Ocasio-Cortez said that was one reason the Green New Deal movement could not abandon its class politics to secure support from avowedly pro-business conservatives." e cannot allow for the fossil fuel jobs to be better, more dignified and higher-waged with stronger labor support behind [them] than new energy jobs," she said. "What I'm tired of is us worrying more about the future of fossil fuels than worry about the future of fossil fuel workers." On Monday, Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) cribbed the Green New Deal's rhetoric harkening to a World War II-level mobilization effort when he proposed a New Manhattan Project for Clean Energy that he said would "double federal funding for energy research" and implement a five-year plan to "create new sources of cheap, clean energy." That same week, Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.), a loyal Trump ally, drafted a nonbinding resolution staking out a "Green Real Deal" that would acknowledge the threat climate change poses to "human health and safety" in "communities across the United States." We have this idea that left ideas are moving and shaking inside the political atmosphere right now. That's true. But they're left in terms of Washington. But in terms of the American people, they're centrist ideas. Heather McGhee, senior fellow at the progressive think tank Demos"A decade of disputation [is] followed now by this incredible uptick of Republicans looking around for solutions," former Rep. Bob Inglis (R-S.C.), whose support for climate action led to his ouster in a primary challenge in 2010, said at the event, where he was the lone Republican. "We've now seen the whites of its eyes. It's here now, so it's hard to deny."	True
308	theduran	questionable_source	2019-06-22	Rain is the solution, but that's not exactly a sure thing when you are in the middle of a historic drought.	At the least, we must improve our water distribution systems to mitigate the problem.	The problem is when people think a resource is free and so plentiful that it can never run out that you get situations where it does run out.	Little that can be done right now, except to keep on hauling water in from wherever they can.	Seeding is only a short term solution.	Their policies are insufficient in many ways. <sep> Build nuclear and desalinate-Although there is no way nuclear can be added fast enough to by itself desalinate drinking water for 600 million by 2030. <sep> And even 2030 wouldn't help right now, which is what is needed. <sep> Water balancing between various rivers, the so called "River Linking" Project is the second alternative. <sep> The most likely is distributing air pollution in the stratosphere.I doubt that India will concern itself with niceties of international cooperation. <sep> More studies are needed. <sep> If the price of water was higher they would consume less and there would be money available to search for new sources of water. <sep> An India government think tank predicts that by 2030, 600 million Indians won't have sufficient drinking water. <sep> Most of the Indian cities, towns and villages are reeling under severe water crisis. <sep> The rain and drought situation in India is grim. <sep> The entire region from Syria to Iran has been suffering a drought that has been going on for about 15 years. <sep> Global climate change is, in turn, changing the distribution of where water is accumulating. <sep> I expect that India will need to invest in sea water desalination. <sep> India is drying up. <sep> When pond of one village was overflowed, water was released for next village on slopes. <sep> At some point somebody has to call a spade a spade and accept the fact that the drought is the new normal. <sep> Drought in more than forth of Maharashtra. <sep> Village Talab system, is one example. <sep> Crores of rupees of the tax-payers money will be used for tankers that will cause incredible pollution in the rural areas…. <sep> A return of the water wars Chennai is out of water, all 4 reservoirs are dry. <sep> Creation of many lakes all over the country to catch and store rain water is a primary objective. <sep> Pricing will now have to include the risk of drought. <sep> That isn't cheap but whatever it costs, those costs have to be passed on to the consumers. <sep> Geoengineering is cheap and not rocket science.A recent study indicates that almost nowhere will suffer under geoengineering. <sep> 	India is drying up. A return of the water wars Chennai is out of water, all 4 reservoirs are dry. More than 8.5 million live in greater Chennai, so it's about the population of greater San Francisco. An India government think tank predicts that by 2030, 600 million Indians won't have sufficient drinking water. It's kind of amazing that they didn't see this coming long ago and plan better. And even 2030 wouldn't help right now, which is what is needed. Rain is the solution, but that's not exactly a sure thing when you are in the middle of a historic drought. Little that can be done right now, except to keep on hauling water in from wherever they can. Many more will follow, in part, because people consider water to be a gift from God. People of India consume lots of water. If the price of water was higher they would consume less and there would be money available to search for new sources of water. The problem is when people think a resource is free and so plentiful that it can never run out that you get situations where it does run out. Clean water has a value. People should be paying what it costs to create and conserve or store fresh water. Regarding the price of water. Pricing will now have to include the risk of drought. The risk of drought is going up rapidly all over the world. I expect that India will need to invest in sea water desalination. That isn't cheap but whatever it costs, those costs have to be passed on to the consumers. The rain and drought situation in India is grim. Most of the Indian cities, towns and villages are reeling under severe water crisis. A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners. Drought in more than forth of Maharashtra. Crores of rupees of the tax-payers money will be used for tankers that will cause incredible pollution in the rural areas…. Creation of many lakes all over the country to catch and store rain water is a primary objective. Water balancing between various rivers, the so called "River Linking" Project is the second alternative. Once water is available in every village, the distribution to houses can be taken up as the third step. Traditional systems perhaps might have to be tweeked a little according to the needs and changing times but there is so much to learn from those who came before us. Village Talab system, is one example. When pond of one village was overflowed, water was released for next village on slopes. Rainwater was harvested at home. In Junagadh, Ahmedabad, Cambay cities. I am not sure whether anyone in Tamil Nadu even knows it had a traditional water harvesting system. Similarly, Odisha's traditional 'Kutta and Munda' water harvesting system by an NGO some decades back but I doubt if any university in Odisha is working on it or the State government is trying to revive the dying wisdom. This is true for all other states, barring Karnataka which is trying to bring back the Kalyani water harvesting structures. Reviving traditional water bodies and harvesting systems has been talked for quite sometime but no one seems interested. The largest desalination plant in South Asia is at Chennai, one of two there. It produces 36.5 million cubic meters/year. That's 9.6 billion US gallons. Israel gets the majority of its drinking water from desalination. It has the world's largest plant, at Hadera, producing 127 cubic meters from salt water, plus it looks like it has larger plants as well. That 33.5 billion gallons. Chennai has a large desalination plant, and a smaller one. Their policies are insufficient in many ways. Like what is water used for, etc. Regulations on ground water pumping, etc. I don't know specifics, but do know that if a city this size runs out of water, several people didn't do their jobs. Areas that are dry are becoming drier and those that are wet are getting more rain. But some of them have drier soil due to increased temperatures. The entire region from Syria to Iran has been suffering a drought that has been going on for about 15 years. At some point somebody has to call a spade a spade and accept the fact that the drought is the new normal. Seeding clouds can only bring as much rain as there is water in the atmosphere. Global climate change is, in turn, changing the distribution of where water is accumulating. At the least, we must improve our water distribution systems to mitigate the problem. Seeding is only a short term solution. Build nuclear and desalinate-Although there is no way nuclear can be added fast enough to by itself desalinate drinking water for 600 million by 2030. And India hasn't signed the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. What are the chances India uses geoengineering? The public: no tests, no international treaties, that will stop it. Geoengineering is cheap and not rocket science.A recent study indicates that almost nowhere will suffer under geoengineering. More studies are needed. The most likely is distributing air pollution in the stratosphere.I doubt that India will concern itself with niceties of international cooperation. Or whichever country leads the way. That's why there has been a campaign for more than a decade: test and make treaties. But we were busy.	False
111	vox	left_bias	2019-08-22	It's a global issue that no one country can solve on its own; it requires collective action, negotiated through some forum like the Paris Climate Agreement.	You can't propose an effective solution to a transnational problem through a narrowly nationalist framework, and yet the nationalists are here attacking both climate policies in their own country and the very idea of global governance itself.	It's a fundamental threat to progress against climate change — and thus the entirety of the human race.	By contrast, the centrist and left parties in these countries were, prior to the populist wave of the past few years, doing a markedly better job on addressing climate change — not perfect or sufficient, mind you, but comparatively much better than what the far-right parties want.	It's especially important that wealthy countries take the lead on the issue.	Poorer countries are less likely to act when they think they're unfairly bearing the burden of a problem kickstarted by Western industrial development. <sep> This brand of populism poses a particular challenge for the effort against climate change. <sep> Continued fires and clear-cutting in the Amazon could cripple the fight against climate change. <sep> All of this goes to underscore an important and poorly understood point: The wave of right-wing populism sweeping the world is not only dangerous for the countries who succumb to it, or even to immigrants wishing to move to those nations. <sep> Large population centers like the United States, Brazil, and the EU as a bloc are responsible for a major chunk of emissions. <sep> There have been almost twice as many fires detected in 2019 so far as there were in the entirety of 2018. <sep> It's hard to overstate how threatening this policy is to the climate. <sep> Fire is used as a tool for clearing Amazon land for ranching, and the more trees are cut down, the more vulnerable the rainforest is to wildfires. <sep> The American and Brazilian leaders are particularly aggressive on the issue, but they're hardly alone among Western right-wingers. <sep> 	The right-wing populist wave is a threat to the climate The Amazon rainforest is on fire — and the consensus is that Brazil's far-right populist leader, Jair Bolsonaro, is to blame. Bolsonaro, who took office in January and has been referred to as "Captain Chainsaw," gutted funding for agencies protecting the massive rainforest, essentially giving wink-and-nudge approval for illegal loggers to do their thing. Fire is used as a tool for clearing Amazon land for ranching, and the more trees are cut down, the more vulnerable the rainforest is to wildfires. There have been almost twice as many fires detected in 2019 so far as there were in the entirety of 2018. It's hard to overstate how threatening this policy is to the climate. The Amazon is the world's largest rainforest: its trees scrub the Earth of a significant amount of CO2 and have captured a huge amount of carbon and methane within their branches and roots. If you lose the trees, a lot of greenhouse gases get released and it becomes harder to capture emissions from other sources. Continued fires and clear-cutting in the Amazon could cripple the fight against climate change. All of this goes to underscore an important and poorly understood point: The wave of right-wing populism sweeping the world is not only dangerous for the countries who succumb to it, or even to immigrants wishing to move to those nations. It's a fundamental threat to progress against climate change — and thus the entirety of the human race. Bolsonaro has been dubbed the "Trump of the Tropics," a far-right firebrand who shares the American president's hostility to democracy and penchant for saying extremely offensive things about women and minorities. The similarities clearly extend to climate policy — Trump famously labeled climate change a Chinese hoax, pulled out of the Paris agreement on climate change, and recently presented a "carbon regulation" plan that could actually increase emissions. The American and Brazilian leaders are particularly aggressive on the issue, but they're hardly alone among Western right-wingers. A February report from the German Adelphi Institute, an environmental think tank, found that 18 out of the 21 largest European far-right parties are either generally indifferent to climate action or outright oppose it. Nigel Farage, the leader of Britain's Brexit party, recently called climate change a "scam" during an interview with conspiracy theorist Alex Jones. Germany's Alternatives for Deutschland (AfD) claims in its most recent electoral platform that "CO2 is not a pollutant, but an indispensable component of all life." By contrast, the centrist and left parties in these countries were, prior to the populist wave of the past few years, doing a markedly better job on addressing climate change — not perfect or sufficient, mind you, but comparatively much better than what the far-right parties want. Between 2003-2011, a left-wing Brazilian government managed to cut Amazon deforestation rates by 80 percent. Obama massively boosted the American renewables industry via the 2009 stimulus, helped negotiate the Paris Climate Accord, and implemented the Clean Power Plan to cut emissions from US power plants. In 2005, the EU put in place the world's first major emissions permit and trading system (the European Union Emissions Trading System, or EU ETS). So there's a clear contrast between the right-wing populists on the one hand and their leading opponents on the other. Right-wing populism today centers on a particular kind of chauvinistic nationalism — an "America First" style obsession with the importance of their (typically ethnically defined) home nation and its independence from international institutions. European populists hate the European Union, with its open-borders approach to immigration and transnational economic regulations; both Trump and Bolsonaro have insulted international institutions and withdrawn from global agreements. This brand of populism poses a particular challenge for the effort against climate change. It's a global issue that no one country can solve on its own; it requires collective action, negotiated through some forum like the Paris Climate Agreement. It's a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU. You can't propose an effective solution to a transnational problem through a narrowly nationalist framework, and yet the nationalists are here attacking both climate policies in their own country and the very idea of global governance itself. This is a crucial time; a recent UN report claims we have 11 years to prevent "irreversible damage" from climate change. Large population centers like the United States, Brazil, and the EU as a bloc are responsible for a major chunk of emissions. It's especially important that wealthy countries take the lead on the issue. Poorer countries are less likely to act when they think they're unfairly bearing the burden of a problem kickstarted by Western industrial development. Backsliding in the US and Europe hurts climate action everywhere. Right-wing populists are often framed as a threat to Western democracy — and they certainly are that. But the stakes are even bigger than they appear at first glance: It's not just the survival of Western democracy that's at stake, but the planet itself.	True
382	theblaze	right_bias	2018-08-08	"Wagner in 2017 said climate change is likely occurring — but perhaps because "we have more people.	This bipartisan agreement modernizes and strengthens environmental protections at oil and gas sites in Pennsylvania.	Governor Wolf has met with environmentalists throughout the state to discuss ways they could work together to combat climate change and strengthen statewide regulations to ensure the protection of public health, safety, and the environment.	e has shown support for the young and naive voters," Strauss told the paper, adding that while Wolf has "supported us verbally," the governor hasn't committed to "action on things we care about like climate change."	He also announced a nation-leading strategy to reduce emissions of methane.		PA-Gov: 'Young and naive' climate activist who questioned Wagner confronts Democratic Gov. Wolf Rose Strauss apparently isn't showing favoritism in the race for Pennsylvania governor — at least when it comes to asking candidates about climate change. The 18-year-old activist made a name for herself beyond the Keystone State last month when she questioned Republican gubernatorial nominee Scott Wagner at a town hall on what she said was his lack of action on climate change and donations he received from the fossil fuel industry. And why did Strauss win the internet that day? Well, in a way she has Wagner to thank for that, as he responded by calling Strauss "a little young and naive" on video, which subsequently went viral. Wagner also asked the Glenside crowd, "Are we here to elect a governor, or are we here to elect a scientist?"Wagner in 2017 said climate change is likely occurring — but perhaps because "we have more people. You know, humans have warm bodies. So is heat coming off?" And his campaign has received $163,750 from the oil and gas industry, according to Vote Smart, a nonprofit political watch dog organization, the York Dispatch said. John Fetterman — the running mate for Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf — ripped Wagner on Twitter over his comments toward Strauss. He also used a "Young and Naive" slogan for $25 T-shirts, the York Daily Record reported, while Wolf's campaign announced "free limited edition" stickers using the phrase:It turns out all the T-shirts and stickers in the world immortalizing Wagner's words to her could not impede Strauss from turning her confrontation Wolf's way, as she and activists tried to intercept the governor as he walked into an event last week, the Daily Record said." om Wolf! It's Rose Strauss! It's Rose Strauss, Tom Wolf!" she's heard shouting on video. "I'm the girl who's 'young and naive'!"Strauss then yelled a question at Wolf about the funds his campaign got from the fossil fuel industry — $98,000 during the 2018 election cycle, according to Follow the Money. Strauss said Sunrise Movement Downingtown has twice reached out to Joseph Hill, Wolf's deputy campaign manager and political director, to request a meeting but has yet to receive a response, the Daily Record reported." e has shown support for the young and naive voters," Strauss told the paper, adding that while Wolf has "supported us verbally," the governor hasn't committed to "action on things we care about like climate change." Wolf's campaign declined to say if he'll meet with Strauss and other activists but offered the following statement to the Daily Record:Governor Wolf is committed to protecting and preserving the environment. One of his first acts as governor was to sign an executive order reinstating the moratorium on new leases for drilling in state parks and forests and he has been fighting efforts by Republicans in Washington to cut EPA funding. Governor Wolf worked across party lines with the state legislature, which is heavily Republican, to pass the Chapter 78a Environmental Protection Performance Standards. This bipartisan agreement modernizes and strengthens environmental protections at oil and gas sites in Pennsylvania. He also announced a nation-leading strategy to reduce emissions of methane. Governor Wolf has met with environmentalists throughout the state to discuss ways they could work together to combat climate change and strengthen statewide regulations to ensure the protection of public health, safety, and the environment. He will continue to engage the environmental community throughout the commonwealth to ensure that their voices are heard." cott is having town halls to articulate his positions on the issues to people of all demographics and backgrounds," Wagner campaign spokesman Andrew Romeo told TheBlaze on Wednesday. "And while some might disagree with him on a policy approach to an issue, which is what happened at the Montgomery County Town Hall, he will continue to hold similar events for the remainder of the campaign. If voters want to know Scott's position on an issue they won't have to ambush him outside an event just to get a hold of him, they can come ask him their questions in person. He certainly won't bury his head and keep walking." Wagner has since clarified his "young and naive" comment, noting in a Sunday town hall that he didn't believe it was "mean" and that "I'm 62 years old, and the young lady asking the question was 18. I have a little more experience than she does," the Daily Record reported. "And that wasn't meant to insult her in any way."	False
643	NewsBusters	right_bias	2017-10-05	Albert, one of the students, has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is "coming for us next for what we've done to this planet!"	However, she's more into data than storytelling, so the kids take a trip to a glacier, allowing her to tell the story of - you guessed it - climate change, which is met with a standing ovation by the audience.	This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media, as they use climate change as the universal bad-guy, so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea.	Of course, conserving energy is a good thing and we should be kind to the earth, but this climate change hysteria is taking over.	But episode 10, "The Tales Glaciers Tell," is the first of two questionable episodes.		New Magic School Bus to Kids: Use Clean Energy or Monsters Will Eat You The Magic School Bus is back in the new Netflix series The Magic School Bus Rides Again!  Overall, it's still a nice, fun 13-episode series like we remember from when we were kids, but with some left turns. There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids, but that wasn't the worst. That dubious honor goes to the episode that teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources. In the show, Miss Frizzle takes her class on educational field trips with the help of a magical school bus that allow them to learn about things like magnets, allergies, and states of matter. In the original series, the kids were taught by Miss Valerie Felicity Frizzle (Lily Tomlin), who is now Professor Frizzle. She hands the charge of her classroom over to her sister, Miss Fiona Frizzle (voiced by Saturday Night Live's Kate McKinnon). Most of the episodes are innocuous enough. The kids have a scientific question of some kind in the classroom, and Miss Frizzle takes them to the Magic School Bus where an incredible field trip helps them to understand. This might be a trip to discover how different animals blend into their surroundings to hide from predators, how the brain coordinates different parts of the body, or what lies deep under the sea. But episode 10, "The Tales Glaciers Tell," is the first of two questionable episodes. Miss Frizzle's student Dorothy Ann (also known as D.A.) has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd. However, she's more into data than storytelling, so the kids take a trip to a glacier, allowing her to tell the story of - you guessed it - climate change, which is met with a standing ovation by the audience. Really? This is what kids are getting excited about? I doubt it. Of course, conserving energy is a good thing and we should be kind to the earth, but this climate change hysteria is taking over. Usually, somebody will say that 97 percent of climate scientists agree that humans are causing global warming, and I was surprised that figure didn't come up in this episode. Could it be that they know how easily debunked that number is? Given the way Dorothy Ann presented man-made climate change as fact, I doubt it. This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media, as they use climate change as the universal bad-guy, so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea. I find it hard to believe any parents were happy about this next one, though. Episode 12, "Monster Power," teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources. Albert, one of the students, has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is "coming for us next for what we've done to this planet!" With the class camping in the woods, Miss Frizzle and the other students help him come up with clean energy alternatives (wind, water, etc) so they won't be eaten. Instead, Miss Frizzle could tell him that monsters aren't real, but I guess that didn't occur to her. While it makes sense to teach kids the science of pollution and about all kinds of energy (I wouldn't have minded some talk about oil in the dinosaur episode, to be honest), why would they tell kids that a monster will eat them for using the wrong energy source? I may not have the teaching credentials of Miss Frizzle, but I'm pretty sure that's not scientifically accurate. They must really hate fossil fuels as much as their friends on the left. Keeping in mind that the TV-Y rating for this series means it's for kids 2-6, I'm sure there are going to be some parents pretty irked at bedtime when kids are scared of the blot monster. Overall, this is a cute series and fun bit of nostalgia for those of us who enjoyed the original books (or TV series) as kids, but I could have done without the climate change propaganda, and telling kids that traditional energy sources attract monsters is way over the top. Can't kids just learn without an anti-scientific social agenda?	False
175	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-09-04	Calling climate change "an existential threat" — a phrase that is sure to come up several more times tonight — Mr. Castro said his first move as president would be to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord.	He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying, "That's the environmental injustice of racism that we're dealing with."	he's right.	The former secretary for Housing and Urban Development and mayor of San Antonio drew on his experience working with families who had lost their homes to flooding and called for subsidizing the National Flood Insurance Program.	An activist from the Sunrise Movement, a liberal environmental group, asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking."		Julián Castro Defends Record on Fracking Julián Castro, the first 2020 Democratic presidential candidate at the CNN climate town hall, set the tone early in the night by giving a shout out to Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, the self-professed "climate candidate" whose six-part plan has been adopted by several other candidates since he dropped out of the race last month. Calling climate change "an existential threat" — a phrase that is sure to come up several more times tonight — Mr. Castro said his first move as president would be to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord. The United States hasn't actually withdrawn from the global climate change agreement and legally cannot until November 2020, but President Trump has vowed to do so. Still, Mr. Castro said, "it's actually what comes next that is most important" saying he would impose a fee on carbon pollution, enact an executive order prohibiting fossil fuel exploration and development on public lands and spend $10 trillion over 10 years to reach net-zero emissions by 2045. The former secretary for Housing and Urban Development and mayor of San Antonio drew on his experience working with families who had lost their homes to flooding and called for subsidizing the National Flood Insurance Program. An activist from the Sunrise Movement, a liberal environmental group, asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking." he's right. When I was mayor of San Antonio, I did believe that there were opportunities to be had with fracking that was going on in South Texas." But, he said, at the time natural gas was described as a "bridge fuel" to help wean the country off coal and toward cleaner fuels." e're coming to the end of the bridge," Mr. Castro said. He said while he isn't calling for an immediate national ban on fracking, he supports local communities that do so and called for moving to cleaner sources. Mr. Castro won some of his strongest applause when he leaned into his résumé as the nation's housing chief and connected his work with the need to protect low-income communities from environmental damages. He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying, "That's the environmental injustice of racism that we're dealing with."	True
498	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-11-22	All this affects the health of people living here, many of whom have respiratory diseases," he said.	The quality of our air and water is very poor.	With Chinese workers and Serbian workers, at the beginning we had some cultural problems but we have overcome them and there is now very good cooperation."	These projects are not compatible with limiting global warming to 1.5C or 2C," she said, referring to the two targets of the Paris Agreement on climate change.	Pera Markovic, a lawyer with Cekor, an environmental group, is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area.	About 3,500 jobs depend on the Kostolac complex but some local people have become increasingly outspoken about the pollution in the area. <sep> Momir Savic showed me how the conveyor belts carrying coal run close to the villages and he fears a further expansion of the operation." <sep> For years, the increase in the number of Chinese coal-fired power stations has been criticised. <sep> An existing power station towers over the rolling landscape, a steady stream of pollution twisting from a massive smokestack, and conveyor belts ferry coal from a nearby open-cast mine at Drmno. <sep> These projects, if completed, will lock the countries into high carbon-emitting infrastructure and volatile coal imports precisely at a time when prices for clean energy are starting to fall below that of coal power." <sep> You cannot be a world leader in curbing air pollution and at the same time the world's biggest financier of overseas coal power plants," the group's energy coordinator Ioana Ciuta told the BBC. <sep> She says that Chinese financial institutions are filling a gap left by Western banks and agencies deciding to limit their involvement in coal." <sep> According to Ms Ciuta, efforts to tackle the dirty air of Chinese cities have led many power companies to limit their ambitions for coal-fired power stations in China itself and to target their technology and labour overseas instead." <sep> And last month the UN's climate science panel said that coal must be phased out by 2050 if the world is to have any chance of limiting the rise in temperatures. <sep> By having China invest in over 60 countries along the Belt and Road Initiative, it's perpetuating a source of pollution that has been demonstrated to be harmful not just to the climate but also to economies," she said. <sep> For the Serbian power company, EPS, the attraction of a local supply of coal has combined with a cheap Chinese loan and the prospects of valuable exports of electricity. <sep> 	China-backed coal projects prompt climate change fears As levels of greenhouse gases reach a new record, concerns are growing about the role of China in global warming. For years, the increase in the number of Chinese coal-fired power stations has been criticised. Now environmental groups say China is also backing dozens of coal projects far beyond its borders. Coal is the most damaging of the fossil fuels because of the quantity of carbon dioxide it releases when it's burned. Last year, the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere reached its highest level for the past 3-5 million years, according to the latest research by the UN's weather agency, the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO). And last month the UN's climate science panel said that coal must be phased out by 2050 if the world is to have any chance of limiting the rise in temperatures. The Chinese-supported coal projects are under way or planned as far afield as South America, Africa, southeast Asia and the Balkans. Contracts and financing for these facilities are often not fully transparent but campaign groups including Bankwatch have tried to keep track." You cannot be a world leader in curbing air pollution and at the same time the world's biggest financier of overseas coal power plants," the group's energy coordinator Ioana Ciuta told the BBC. According to Ms Ciuta, efforts to tackle the dirty air of Chinese cities have led many power companies to limit their ambitions for coal-fired power stations in China itself and to target their technology and labour overseas instead." By having China invest in over 60 countries along the Belt and Road Initiative, it's perpetuating a source of pollution that has been demonstrated to be harmful not just to the climate but also to economies," she said. In Serbia, one of the country's largest coal-fired power stations is being expanded with the help of a loan from a Chinese bank and with the work being led by one of China's largest construction companies. An hour's drive east of the capital Belgrade, in the coal-rich Danube valley, construction has already started at the site, known as Kostolac B3. An existing power station towers over the rolling landscape, a steady stream of pollution twisting from a massive smokestack, and conveyor belts ferry coal from a nearby open-cast mine at Drmno. The power station is run by the national Serbian electricity company, EPS, which provides about 70% of the country's power by burning coal - the rest comes from hydro-electric schemes. Now, under a $715m (£560m) contract agreed by the Serbian government and Chinese President Xi Jinping, an extra unit is being added, which will bring 350MW of additional capacity with the latest "super-critical" technology. When we visit, we catch a brief glimpse of a group of Chinese workers wearing hard hats on their way from the construction site to a vast set of accommodation blocks - by next year, some 1,500 Chinese staff will be here. Safety signs and notice boards are written in Serbian and Chinese. Equipment and shipping containers carry Chinese labels.I ask the EPS official running the project, Zeljko Lazovic, what he feels about such a large and important venture being in the hands of Chinese engineers and workers." In the next few months a lot of Chinese will come here and this will be a big challenge," he says." With Chinese workers and Serbian workers, at the beginning we had some cultural problems but we have overcome them and there is now very good cooperation." When asked about the environmental cost of the new project, Mr Lazovic insisted it would meet all the EU's standards on pollution by dust, nitrogen dioxide and sulphur. However, the new unit will not be fitted with any carbon capture technology so it will fit into a pattern of Chinese-backed projects that will add to carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere. Christine Shearer is an analyst with the group CoalSwarm, which tracks coal developments, and she is scathing about the implications." These projects are not compatible with limiting global warming to 1.5C or 2C," she said, referring to the two targets of the Paris Agreement on climate change. She says that Chinese financial institutions are filling a gap left by Western banks and agencies deciding to limit their involvement in coal." These projects, if completed, will lock the countries into high carbon-emitting infrastructure and volatile coal imports precisely at a time when prices for clean energy are starting to fall below that of coal power." We tried to contact the Export-Import Bank of China, which is providing the loan, and the China Machinery Engineering Corporation, which is leading the construction, but did not hear back. For the Serbian power company, EPS, the attraction of a local supply of coal has combined with a cheap Chinese loan and the prospects of valuable exports of electricity. About 3,500 jobs depend on the Kostolac complex but some local people have become increasingly outspoken about the pollution in the area. Momir Savic showed me how the conveyor belts carrying coal run close to the villages and he fears a further expansion of the operation." The quality of our air and water is very poor. We cannot grow fruit and vegetables. There is also a lot of noise. All this affects the health of people living here, many of whom have respiratory diseases," he said. EPS says it is spending hundreds of millions of euros on environmental protection but its track record clearly does not inspire trust. Pera Markovic, a lawyer with Cekor, an environmental group, is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area. But he concedes that Serbia is heavily dependent on coal for its power. For how long? "Decades," Mr Markovic says. That's likely to be the same in many other countries too, whatever climate scientists say is needed.	False
19	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-02-22	Top Department of Energy (DOE) officials said this was a major breakthrough that will alleviate a growing problem for U.S. energy producers — a lack of export infrastructure."	Brouillette argued that while an individual LNG export terminal would emit greenhouse gases, it would help lower global emissions because countries want gas as an alternative to coal."	However, a limiting factor on oil and gas is the lack of export terminals and pipelines.	o the extent that LNG is displacing coal around the world, we think the impact is going to be positive," Brouillette said.	FERC's other Democratic commissioner Richard Glick opposed the terminal, arguing his colleagues were "deliberately ignoring the consequences that its actions have for climate change."	Menezes said breaking FERC's deadlock was also an important step in helping DOE improve its own LNG terminal approval process, including "making sure there's no duplicative reviews." <sep> "We hope it will serve as an analytical template going forward." <sep> 	Late-Night Deal Breaks Deadlock Over Natural Gas Exports. The Trump Administration Is Ecstatic The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) broke a two-year partisan deadlock Thursday night to approve a liquefied natural gas (LNG) export terminal in Louisiana. Top Department of Energy (DOE) officials said this was a major breakthrough that will alleviate a growing problem for U.S. energy producers — a lack of export infrastructure." e have been promoting US energy around the world and today's decision by the FERC is a very important one," DOE Deputy Secretary Dan Brouillette told The Daily Caller News Foundation in an interview. (RELATED: US Oil Output Hits 12 Million Barrel-A-Day Milestone Way Ahead Of Schedule)The Calcasieu Pass LNG export terminal is the first such project to get FERC approval in two years. Republican FERC commissioners Neil Chatterjee, the chairman and Bernard McNamee worked with Democrat Cheryl LaFleur to hash out an agreement to get her support. Chatterjee and McNamee needed LaFleur's vote to approve Calcasieu Pass, which they secured after working out a new approach to account for greenhouse gas emissions from the export facility." his is a tremendous breakthrough," DOE Under Secretary of Energy Mark Menezes told TheDCNF. "We hope it will serve as an analytical template going forward." Once complete, Calcasieu Pass terminal will export up 12 million metric tons of LNG a year. Brouillette said the project already has buyers, including in Europe, waiting for American natural gas. Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling spurred an oil and natural gas boom over the past decade, making the U.S. the world's top hydrocarbon producer. However, a limiting factor on oil and gas is the lack of export terminals and pipelines. Menezes said breaking FERC's deadlock was also an important step in helping DOE improve its own LNG terminal approval process, including "making sure there's no duplicative reviews." Getting approval to build an LNG export terminal is a long, complicated process that requires approval from multiple agencies. FERC currently has a backlog of a dozen LNG projects awaiting approval. (RELATED: Obama EPA Regulations Blamed For Closure Of 100-Year-Old Coal Plant)The Trump administration has been pushing for speedier approvals for LNG terminals, but FERC has been holding up the process amid pressure from environmental groups to factor global warming into its approval process. LaFleur, for example, called on FERC to factor in estimates, like the controversial "social cost of carbon," for a cost-benefit analysis. However, LaFleur agreed to compromise with her Republican colleagues. FERC's other Democratic commissioner Richard Glick opposed the terminal, arguing his colleagues were "deliberately ignoring the consequences that its actions have for climate change." The commission's environmental review of Calcasieu Pass found the facility would emit roughly 3.9 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions a year — about 0.07 percent of total U.S. emissions. Brouillette argued that while an individual LNG export terminal would emit greenhouse gases, it would help lower global emissions because countries want gas as an alternative to coal." o the extent that LNG is displacing coal around the world, we think the impact is going to be positive," Brouillette said. Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trump's foreign policy." hese are decisions that impact the president's ability to make foreign policy decisions," Brouillette told TheDCNF. "We get to assist Poland, we get to assist Lithuania, we get to assist the Baltic states." Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	True
288	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-10-05	"Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming, while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming, and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation."	here is no climate emergency.	The declaration's signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day."	Late last month, a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a "European Climate Declaration" to the Secretary-General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change."	No matter what the winter shapes up to be, there is a 100 percent probability that climate alarmists will find some way to attribute the weather to global warming and carbon dioxide emissions.		Global Warming: Britain Braces for 'Coldest Winter in 30 Years' Yahoo News reported Saturday that temperatures in Great Britain could reach as low as -14C with "snow event after snow event" expected to hit various parts of the territory. Forecasters expect the lasting cold spell to begin sometime this month and to continue at least through March." ctober is now looking like it will turn out to be colder than average with more of a chance of something wintery setting in through the second half of the month," according to Exacta Weather forecaster James Madden." here is a strong chance of widespread frosts and the chance of snowfall which will set the scene for November," Madden said. ""This will pave the way for what is shaping up to be a colder than average winter with some extreme cold weather events." Snow events have been few and far between in recent years, but this winter is looking favourable to bring snow event after snow event as weather systems from the Atlantic clash with cold stagnated air over the UK," he said. Current sea temperatures combined with a weather system over the north Atlantic suggest that "a freezing vortex of Arctic air could hit the country" later this month, Yahoo's Victoria Bell reported. The system will presumably descend from the North Pole ushering in a swath of low pressure spanning from Greenland to the northwest coast of Ireland. In the estimation of some meteorologists, the 2019-2020 cold spell will rival the bitter winter of 1963, believed to have been the coldest in 200 years. Other weather-watchers are less confident that this winter will be a record-breaker. Mark Saunders, for example, Professor of Climate Prediction at UCL, claims that there is only a 57 percent probability that this winter will be colder than last year's. Late last month, a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a "European Climate Declaration" to the Secretary-General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change." limate science should be less political, while climate policies should be more scientific," the declaration stated. "Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming, while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming, and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation." There is no statistical evidence that global warming is intensifying hurricanes, floods, droughts and suchlike natural disasters, or making them more frequent," they continued. The declaration's signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day." here is no climate emergency. Therefore, there is no cause for panic and alarm," they noted. "We strongly oppose the harmful and unrealistic net-zero CO2 policy proposed for 2050." No matter what the winter shapes up to be, there is a 100 percent probability that climate alarmists will find some way to attribute the weather to global warming and carbon dioxide emissions.	False
202	cnbc	left_center_bias	2019-07-31	I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here."	It makes sense for us to have policies that reduce emissions, that reduce the pollutants that are in the air, to reduce the particles that cause massive health problems around the world," he said.	Perry did not quantify whether man-made greenhouse gases associated with climate change, such as carbon dioxide emissions from burning gasoline and coal or methane releases from natural gas and oil production, are the main problem or even whether they're causing the immediate and growing crisis that Democrats contend.	We're going to address the climate.	"Common sense tells you, bring the cleaner burning fuels, bring the things that bring the emissions down.	During the first round of the second Democratic presidential debate on Tuesday evening, the 2020 hopefuls on the stage all agreed on the need to urgently address climate change, but clashed over how to do it. <sep> Are we part of the reason? <sep> "The climate is changing. <sep> In 2017, then-Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNBC he does not believe carbon dioxide is a primary contributor. <sep> 	Energy secretary contradicts Trump, says humans do play a role in causing climate change Energy Secretary Rick Perry, veering from the Trump administration message on climate change, told CNBC on Wednesday he believes that human activity does play a role."I'm on the record as saying the climate is changing. Man, it's been changing forever. Where have you been?" Perry said in a "Squawk Box" interview when pressed on what causes climate change. "The climate is changing. Are we part of the reason? Yeah, it is. I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here." Perry did not quantify whether man-made greenhouse gases associated with climate change, such as carbon dioxide emissions from burning gasoline and coal or methane releases from natural gas and oil production, are the main problem or even whether they're causing the immediate and growing crisis that Democrats contend. However, Perry did say that it's still worth developing zero-emissions technology and that the Trump administration has made great strides in cleaner energy solutions." We're going to address the climate. It makes sense for us to have policies that reduce emissions, that reduce the pollutants that are in the air, to reduce the particles that cause massive health problems around the world," he said. "Common sense tells you, bring the cleaner burning fuels, bring the things that bring the emissions down. That's just common sense." Perry said the administration is reducing emissions — claiming without evidence or specificity that countries in the Paris climate agreement, with "their hair on fire" when President Donald Trump announced his intention to pull out two years ago, are not doing as much as the U.S. Trump has repeatedly over the years expressed skepticism about the role humans play in climate change. In 2017, then-Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNBC he does not believe carbon dioxide is a primary contributor. On Monday, Trump talked about his administration's environmental record, saying America can lead the world in fighting pollution at the same time it promotes fossil fuels. Since taking office, Trump has dismantled scores of environmental rules. The U.S. has become the world's biggest oil and gas producer over the last couple of years, thanks mainly to a technology-led drilling boom. During the first round of the second Democratic presidential debate on Tuesday evening, the 2020 hopefuls on the stage all agreed on the need to urgently address climate change, but clashed over how to do it. They also talked about their own proposals to curb what they see as the man-made causes, as well as the merits of the Green New Deal, unveiled in February by Democrats New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey.	True
96	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-07-30	But because the events were held in a city threatened by rising sea levels, debate questions focused on the magnitude of the global warming crisis and the risks posed by runaway emissions.	It's not going to be fully ready until it begins to reflect the kind of environmental and energy issues that our people are concerned about," said Darryl Jordan, 65, the co-director of the East Michigan Environmental Action Council.	Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of America's climate-changing gases, the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning and in which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines."	If Miami is a city in need of salvation from rising seas, Detroit, in their vision, could be the savior.	Climate change received a combined 15 minutes of airtime during last month's debates in Miami ― woefully insufficient given the scope of the crisis, but significant progress for an issue that was virtually ignored in the 2016 election.		Detroiters March For Green New Deal Ahead Of Democratic Debate DETROIT ― Theresa Landrum survived her battle with cancer. But her parents didn't. Neither did at least 10 other people who lived on her block. Such is life and death in the 48217, Michigan's most polluted ZIP code ― home to automotive plants, the state's only oil refinery and more than 8,200 mostly working-class African Americans. On Tuesday, Landrum, a retired General Motors factory worker, marched downtown with as many as 2,000 fellow Detroiters to the steps of the Fox Theatre, where 10 Democratic presidential hopefuls were scheduled to face off in the second round of primary debates. The protest marked one of the most confrontational demands for a Green New Deal in months, as local groups took up the mantle from national climate campaigners, which have shifted their efforts to focus on demanding a climate-only Democratic primary debate. Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of America's climate-changing gases, the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning and in which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines." e are being robbed and pillaged by industry," Landrum said, her voice rising to a preacher's righteous crescendo. "Then you know what we get? A few job promises, and they get to pollute as much as they want." The three-word slogan surged into America's political lexicon last November when activists with the youth-led Sunrise Movement occupied then-incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office, demanding Democrats champion climate policy that actually matches the scope of the crisis. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) took heed. In February, she and Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) introduced a resolution that outlined the core tenets of a Green New Deal. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren's growing inventory of policy proposals includes plans to decarbonize the military by 2030, halt fossil fuel leasing on public lands, and put new restrictions on businesses' ability to influence lawmakers. California Sen. Kamala Harris, the only candidate to bring up the Green New Deal in the first round of debates, co-sponsored a climate justice bill with Ocasio-Cortez this week that lays the groundwork for federal climate spending to benefit poor, minority communities who disproportionately suffer the impacts of pollution. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who has yet to release a comprehensive climate plan, has positioned himself as the standard-bearer of former President Franklin D. Roosevelt's economic ideals, and a vocal proponent of the Green New Deal movement. Climate change received a combined 15 minutes of airtime during last month's debates in Miami ― woefully insufficient given the scope of the crisis, but significant progress for an issue that was virtually ignored in the 2016 election. But because the events were held in a city threatened by rising sea levels, debate questions focused on the magnitude of the global warming crisis and the risks posed by runaway emissions. The Frontline Detroit Coalition, the alliance of a dozen local environmental groups and unions who organized Tuesday's march, struck a markedly different tone. If Miami is a city in need of salvation from rising seas, Detroit, in their vision, could be the savior. Ahead of the march, musicians and activists took a makeshift stage in Cass Park, a historic green space where last month's record heatwave left the grass crisp and brown, and led crowds chanting "build a new economy" and "invest in our community." The Green New Deal is a platform, an empty box. It's not going to be fully ready until it begins to reflect the kind of environmental and energy issues that our people are concerned about," said Darryl Jordan, 65, the co-director of the East Michigan Environmental Action Council. "We're not in a state where the differences between Democrats and Republicans are that radical." If there is poetry in demanding a Green New Deal in the city that birthed the automotive age, the city's union legacy gives the call real teeth. Powerful construction unions that depend on the fossil fuel industry for lucrative jobs have publicly opposed the Green New Deal, though the movement has garnered growing labor support, including an official endorsement from the Service Employees International Union last month.	True
254	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-10-07	This is our issue," Beverly said.	That was the topic at a recent roundtable discussion in Washington, DC, where Bloomberg Environment reported that activists at the event said Congress needed to take action."	or African Americans and people living in urban poor communities, it provides them with an empowerment tool to enforce the law, to demand action, and to try to get remediation done," Grijalva told Bloomberg Environment."	Members of the Congressional Black Caucus say they've heard the call and are working on solutions," Bloomberg Environment reported.	By fighting for the actual justice and livelihood of working people, you are going to create the political energy to actually address climate change," she said.	"Because you cannot build a winning political coalition to fight climate change on just technocratic solutions." <sep> I think we're going to be energetic in supporting any legislation that is aimed at improving the environment, but I also have to tell you how congested the major issues have become," Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) said in the Bloomberg Environment article. <sep> Activists Press Congress to Help Black Communities Fight Climate Change Advocates of man-made climate change believe that it causes strong storms, rising tides, and hot temperatures, and that black communities are disproportionately hurt by the effects of "global warming." <sep> Bloomberg Environment reported on how blacks are allegedly suffering from climate change-related hardships:Most of the worst effects of climate change are hitting—and lingering in—poor black neighborhoods in the South, according to the Rev. <sep> his is about social disruption," Shepard said. <sep> Cleaver said lawmakers could add language to the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) budget to put resources in poor black communities, and the National Flood Insurance Program could add more protections for black communities. <sep> "Many House Democrats think there's value in putting these measures up for a vote, even if they have little chance in the Senate now, to send a message." <sep> In New York City, many residents who die from heat stroke are African American, Peggy Shepard, executive director of West Harlem Environmental Action Inc., also known as WE ACT for Environmental Justice, said at a Sept. 12 roundtable hosted by the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, where Beverly and Woodberry also spoke." <sep> 	Activists Press Congress to Help Black Communities Fight Climate Change Advocates of man-made climate change believe that it causes strong storms, rising tides, and hot temperatures, and that black communities are disproportionately hurt by the effects of "global warming." That was the topic at a recent roundtable discussion in Washington, DC, where Bloomberg Environment reported that activists at the event said Congress needed to take action." eople of color have always been on the front line of this movement," Alaina Beverly, a former Obama White House urban affairs official who is now vice president for urban affairs at the University of Chicago's Office of Federal Relations in Washington, said at the event. "We're hit first and hit worst." This is our issue," Beverly said. Bloomberg Environment reported on how blacks are allegedly suffering from climate change-related hardships:Most of the worst effects of climate change are hitting—and lingering in—poor black neighborhoods in the South, according to the Rev. Leo Woodberry, executive director of the New Alpha Community Development Corporation in Florence, S.C. In coastal South Carolina, for example, residents in largely black towns have been told they won't be eligible for flood insurance if they don't elevate their homes; but a survey of local engineering groups showed the cost starts at $20,000 for a 900-square-foot house, Woodberry said. In New York City, many residents who die from heat stroke are African American, Peggy Shepard, executive director of West Harlem Environmental Action Inc., also known as WE ACT for Environmental Justice, said at a Sept. 12 roundtable hosted by the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, where Beverly and Woodberry also spoke." his is about social disruption," Shepard said. "Extreme heat is killing thousands every year." Bloomberg Environment cited a University of California at Berkeley study that said blacks are 52 percent more likely than whites to live in so-called "urban heat islands," where the sun beams down on brick, concrete and asphalt." here's no question that this is a topic area that black politicians, including the CBC [Congressional Black Caucus], have not focused on as much," Thomas A. LaVeist, dean of Tulane University's School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, said in an interview. "And I think it's because the stereotype is that the environment is about tree hugging or saving exotic birds." Members of the Congressional Black Caucus say they've heard the call and are working on solutions," Bloomberg Environment reported. "The caucus is made up of 55 African American members of the House and Senate." I think we're going to be energetic in supporting any legislation that is aimed at improving the environment, but I also have to tell you how congested the major issues have become," Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) said in the Bloomberg Environment article. Cleaver said lawmakers could add language to the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) budget to put resources in poor black communities, and the National Flood Insurance Program could add more protections for black communities. Bloomberg Environment reported that some are already putting out legislation with this goal in mind, including Reps. Maxine Waters (D-CA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) and A. Donald McEachin (D-VA)." or African Americans and people living in urban poor communities, it provides them with an empowerment tool to enforce the law, to demand action, and to try to get remediation done," Grijalva told Bloomberg Environment." eparately, Rep. Kathy Castor (D-Fla.), chairwoman of the House Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, is working on a climate bill to be rolled out in March that, among other things, will aim to help communities of color living near pollution sources," Bloomberg Environment reported. "Many House Democrats think there's value in putting these measures up for a vote, even if they have little chance in the Senate now, to send a message." The article also quoted Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) about her Green New Deal resolution that puts social justice even above climate change."  think it's backwards and shortsighted to say, 'Well, let's just throw a bunch of solar panels on everyone's roof and call it a day,'" Ocasio-Cortez said. "Because you cannot build a winning political coalition to fight climate change on just technocratic solutions." By fighting for the actual justice and livelihood of working people, you are going to create the political energy to actually address climate change," she said.	True
148	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-02-22	His run-ins with climate science were repeatedly highlighted in responses to the retweet by thefirst daughter and senior White House adviser.	No more gaslighting.	taken steps to cut back the US Environmental Protection Agency & is on record saying that global warming is a hoax invented by the Chinese to attack US manufacturing...... — Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me (@rookney) February 21, 2019You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro-science.	Happer, who has no experience in climatology, has said having higher atmospheric carbon dioxide levels is beneficial.	For the past two years, the Trump Administration has been an active and meaningful driver for science and technology policy in America.		Ivanka Trump Retweets Praise Of Administration As 'Driver For Science,' Twitter Gags ﻿Ivanka Trump on Thursday retweeted a White House message hailing the administration as a "driver for science" — and Twitter was agog. The initial tweet was posted the White House Office of Science and Technology after it issued a report titled "Science & Technology Highlights in the Second Year of the Trump Administration." On Wednesday, The Washington Post reported that Trump was convening a panel, the Presidential Committee on Climate Security, "to question the findings of federal scientists and experts on climate change" and counter red-alert warnings from the scientific community. President Donald Trump's pick to head the committee, William Happer, once compared the "demonization" of CO2 to how Jews were characterized in Nazi Germany. Happer, who has no experience in climatology, has said having higher atmospheric carbon dioxide levels is beneficial. Trump said late last year that he didn't believe a dire report by federal agencies about climate change, declaring, "We're the cleanest we've ever been." His run-ins with climate science were repeatedly highlighted in responses to the retweet by thefirst daughter and senior White House adviser. For the past two years, the Trump Administration has been an active and meaningful driver for science and technology policy in America. pic. twitter. com/JQkiWI4Dx2 — White House OSTP (@WHOSTP) February 21, 2019Donald Trump has: said he will pull the US out of the Paris international climate agreement! taken steps to cut back the US Environmental Protection Agency & is on record saying that global warming is a hoax invented by the Chinese to attack US manufacturing...... — Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me (@rookney) February 21, 2019You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro-science. That is hypocrisy. — Robert Johnson (@robertjohnson11) February 21, 2019When you continue to deny climate science you can't make the claim that you are a driver of science policy. No more gaslighting. — merryterry (@merryterry1) February 21, 2019	False
345	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-08-04	Increased irrigation — fueled by growing demand for ethanol — has also taken a toll on the ground, with the report finding "grassland-to-annual-crop conversion negatively impacts soil quality because it increases erosion and the loss of soil nutrients."	The ethanol mandate has negatively effected water quality, with greater biofuel production resulting in more harmful algae blooms and hypoxia.	Water, soil and air quality were all found to be adversely affected by biofuel mandates."	Large-scale production of these crops is causing environmental degradation.	The EPA also found that — at least in some instances — using ethanol in lieu of gasoline resulted in worse air emissions."	A]ir quality modeling suggests that production and use of ethanol as fuel to displace gasoline is likely to increase such air pollutants as PM2.5, ozone, and SOx in some locations," read a section of the report pertaining to air quality. <sep> 	EPA Released A Long-Delayed Report Showing Ethanol Hurts The Environment An extensive report from the Environmental Protection Agency found that including ethanol into the U.S. gas supply is wreaking havoc on the atmosphere and soil. In a study titled "Biofuels and the Environment: The Second Triennial Report to Congress," the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) determined that ethanol derived from corn and soybeans is causing serious harm to the environment. Water, soil and air quality were all found to be adversely affected by biofuel mandates." vidence since enactment of [the Energy Independence and Security Act] suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn, with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production," read a portion of the 159-page report. The ethanol mandate has negatively effected water quality, with greater biofuel production resulting in more harmful algae blooms and hypoxia. While most algae is harmless to water, some forms — such as the kind produced in Lake Eerie from biofuel feedstock — has emitted toxic chemicals into the water. This harmful algae can consume the oxygen in the water, a process known as hypoxia, killing other wildlife. Increased irrigation — fueled by growing demand for ethanol — has also taken a toll on the ground, with the report finding "grassland-to-annual-crop conversion negatively impacts soil quality because it increases erosion and the loss of soil nutrients." Essentially, the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans. Large-scale production of these crops is causing environmental degradation. The EPA also found that — at least in some instances — using ethanol in lieu of gasoline resulted in worse air emissions." A]ir quality modeling suggests that production and use of ethanol as fuel to displace gasoline is likely to increase such air pollutants as PM2.5, ozone, and SOx in some locations," read a section of the report pertaining to air quality. While traditional gasoline contains more CO2, ethanol-based fuels have more nitrogen oxides (NOx), which can be more harmful to human health. NOx can exacerbate asthma by causing inflammation of the respiratory airwaves, with long-term exposure resulting in decreased lung functionThe mandate in reference concerns the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), a 2005 law that requires oil refineries include a certain amount of ethanol in their fuel mix. The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts. The RFS has proven to be controversial, with oil producers deriding the mandate as costly and unneeded. Corn growers, however, support the mandate as it drives demand for the product. (RELATED: New EPA Chief Will Continue Scott Pruitt's War With The Corn Lobby)During his time leading the EPA, Scott Pruitt became an adversary of ethanol proponents after granting more RFS waivers and pushing for a rollback of the law altogether. It's not immediately clear how the Trump administration will handle the RFS debate moving forward. Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler has suggested he will continue seeking changes to the mandate, but President Donald Trump told an Iowa crowd in July that the EPA may soon allow for more ethanol to be included in gas. The EPA study, published on June 29, came after a long delay. Federal law calls for the EPA to conduct a study on the Renewable Fuel Standard every three years, but the government was four years late this go-around. The agency's previous ethanol study was published in 2011. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	True
169	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-12-02	The situation has been made worse because the two strongest cyclones ever to hit the African continent, affected the same region just weeks apart.	Speaking ahead of the meeting, he said political leaders had to respond to the imminent climate crisis."	The climate crisis is happening here, and it's killing people, forcing them from their homes and ruining children's chance of a future," said Ian Vale from Save the Children.	We are disappointed by inadequate action by developed countries and outraged by the dithering and retreat of one of the most culpable polluters from the Paris Agreement," she said."	With our very existence at stake, COP 25 must demonstrate unprecedented ambition to avert ecocide."	They reflect profound failure to honour collective global commitment to protect the most vulnerable." <sep> At the Madrid summit, ambassador Lois Young, from the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), which represents low-lying coastal countries and small island nations, launched a rebuke to the world's big polluters." <sep> This conference of the parties, or COP25, was due to be held in Chile but was cancelled by the government due to weeks of civil disturbances. <sep> Ms Heine is not alone in the view that small nations like the Marshall Islands face an imminent existential threat. <sep> We simply have to stop digging and drilling and take advantage of the vast possibilities offered by renewable energy and nature-based solutions," Mr Guterres said. <sep> Climate change: COP25 island nation in 'fight to death' The president of an island nation on the frontline of climate change says it is in a "fight to the death" after freak waves inundated the capital. <sep> Underlining the real world impacts of climate change, a report from the charity Save the Children, says that what it calls "climate shocks" are threatening tens of millions of people in East and Southern Africa. <sep> As we speak hundreds of people have evacuated their homes after large waves caused the ocean to inundate parts of our capital in Majuro last week." <sep> The meeting follows on the heels of three UN reports which stressed the increased urgency of limiting dangerous climate change. <sep> According to UN Secretary General António Guterres, "the point of no return is no longer over the horizon". <sep> In the midst of a climate emergency, retreat and inaction are tantamount to sanctioning ecocide. <sep> America remains the number one historic contributor to the climate emergency, and even Democratic politicians have never committed to taking responsibility for our fair share." <sep> In the crucial 12 months ahead, it is essential that we secure more ambitious national commitments - particularly from the main emitters - to immediately start reducing greenhouse gas emissions at a pace consistent to reaching carbon neutrality by 2050." <sep> 	Climate change: COP25 island nation in 'fight to death' The president of an island nation on the frontline of climate change says it is in a "fight to the death" after freak waves inundated the capital. Powerful swells averaging 5m (16ft) washed across the capital of the Marshall Islands, Majuro, last week. But President Hilda Heine said the Pacific nation had been fighting rising tides even before last week's disaster. Political leaders and climate diplomats are meeting in Madrid for two weeks of talks amid a growing sense of crisis. This conference of the parties, or COP25, was due to be held in Chile but was cancelled by the government due to weeks of civil disturbances. Spain then stepped in to host the event, which will see 29,000 attendees over the two weeks of talks.• Climate change: Where we are in seven chartsThe world's average surface temperature is rising rapidly because human activities release greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide (CO2). These gases trap heat in the atmosphere, a bit like the glass roof of a greenhouse. At the meeting, Ms Heine commented: "Water covers much of our land at one or other point of the year as we fight rising tides. As we speak hundreds of people have evacuated their homes after large waves caused the ocean to inundate parts of our capital in Majuro last week." She added: "It's a fight to the death for anyone not prepared to flee. As a nation we refuse to flee. But we also refuse to die." Ms Heine is not alone in the view that small nations like the Marshall Islands face an imminent existential threat. At the Madrid summit, ambassador Lois Young, from the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), which represents low-lying coastal countries and small island nations, launched a rebuke to the world's big polluters." We are disappointed by inadequate action by developed countries and outraged by the dithering and retreat of one of the most culpable polluters from the Paris Agreement," she said." In the midst of a climate emergency, retreat and inaction are tantamount to sanctioning ecocide. They reflect profound failure to honour collective global commitment to protect the most vulnerable." With our very existence at stake, COP 25 must demonstrate unprecedented ambition to avert ecocide." The COP25 meeting will aim to step up ambition so that all countries increase their national commitments to cut emissions. The meeting follows on the heels of three UN reports which stressed the increased urgency of limiting dangerous climate change. According to UN Secretary General António Guterres, "the point of no return is no longer over the horizon". Speaking ahead of the meeting, he said political leaders had to respond to the imminent climate crisis." In the crucial 12 months ahead, it is essential that we secure more ambitious national commitments - particularly from the main emitters - to immediately start reducing greenhouse gas emissions at a pace consistent to reaching carbon neutrality by 2050." We simply have to stop digging and drilling and take advantage of the vast possibilities offered by renewable energy and nature-based solutions," Mr Guterres said. Almost every country in the world has now signed and ratified the Paris climate agreement and under the terms of the pact they will all have to put new climate pledges on the table before the end of 2020. This meeting in Madrid signals the start of a frantic 12 months of negotiations that will culminate in Glasgow with COP26 in November next year. Some 50 world leaders are expected to attend the meeting in the Spanish capital - but US President Donald Trump will not be among them. The US became a signatory to the landmark Paris climate agreement in April 2016, under the Obama administration. But President Trump has said the accord - which has been signed by more than 190 countries - would lead to lost jobs and lower wages for American workers. Last month, he began the process of withdrawing from the Paris deal. However, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, will attend the conference with a congressional delegation. While her presence has been welcomed, US environmentalists want to see concrete steps on climate." While it's great Speaker Pelosi is coming to Madrid in place of Trump, symbolic gestures are no substitute for bold action," said Jean Su from the US Center for Biological Diversity." America remains the number one historic contributor to the climate emergency, and even Democratic politicians have never committed to taking responsibility for our fair share." Underlining the real world impacts of climate change, a report from the charity Save the Children, says that what it calls "climate shocks" are threatening tens of millions of people in East and Southern Africa. The charity says 33 million people are at emergency levels of food insecurity due to cyclones and droughts. More than half of these are believed to be children. The situation has been made worse because the two strongest cyclones ever to hit the African continent, affected the same region just weeks apart. Cyclone Idai struck Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi last March, while six weeks later Cyclone Kenneth slammed Mozambique with millions affected by flooding." The climate crisis is happening here, and it's killing people, forcing them from their homes and ruining children's chance of a future," said Ian Vale from Save the Children.	True
710	CNN	left_bias	2017-09-22	"And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land."	On the conservation side however, I think it's a much less rosy picture," Fosburgh said.	On the access front the department has been good.	Another pro-hunting group says what they are seeing within Interior is a fight between access and conservation."	Conservationists who want to expand their access to hunting on public park lands and at monuments are as weary of opening up national park land to fossil fuel industries as environmentalists are, since both value sustaining the land as is."		Hunting is down in the US. The Trump administration wants to change that Washington (CNN) Toy gun grasped firmly in his hand and a grin plastered wide across his face while he played "Big Buck Hunter Pro," Ryan Zinke could have been a kid at an arcade. But the Interior secretary and former congressman was actually in the department cafeteria showing off the arcade game installed to commemorate hunting season." To highlight #sportsmen contributions 2 conservation I installed Big Buck Hunter in the employee cafeteria. Get excited for #hunting season!" Zinke tweeted from his personal account Tuesday. But Zinke is not toying around when it comes to his support of hunters and fishers. Hunting in the United States is down. A US Fish and Wildlife Service survey released last week found that there are 2.2 million fewer hunters in America now than in 2011. And the new administration is poised to change that. On his first day in office back in March, Zinke issued two orders, one which overturned a recent ban of lead ammunition and fish tackle on Fish and Wildlife Service lands and waters. Last week Zinke issued another secretarial order designed to increase access to various public lands for hunters and fishers." What really kind of expedited this whole thing, was last week the US Fish and Wildlife put out a survey saying that hundreds of Americans were enjoying the outdoors, but within that survey they found that hunting was down," Heather Swift, Interior spokesperson said when asked about last week's secretarial order. "And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land." Mr. Zinke was the pick of the litter, not the best litter ever, but he was definitely the pick and that's why we advocated for him and that's why Jr. advocated for him as well," said Land Tawney, the president of the Montana-based Backcountry Hunters & Anglers, a non-profit sportsmen's organization. Zinke and the Interior have recently made a big show of their support of hunting groups. In addition to the "Buck Hunter" game he gifted Interior employees, the department declared Thursday that October would be National Hunting and Fishing Month. The declaration also generated the support of the National Rifle Association." Hunters, anglers, and target shooters are the best conservationists who contribute so much through the Pittman-Robertson and Dingell-Johnson Acts," said Richard Childress, NRA vice president. "Last year, they contributed $1.2 billion toward conservation and protecting our natural resources. We need more mentors taking young people out and teaching them to hunt and fish, so I'm glad Secretary Zinke is promoting hunting and fishing at the federal level." With what's leaked it's super troubling. Any reduction on these monuments is an attack on the Antiquities Act," said Tawney. "All monuments are at risk now. They can become political footballs in our eyes." Conservationists who want to expand their access to hunting on public park lands and at monuments are as weary of opening up national park land to fossil fuel industries as environmentalists are, since both value sustaining the land as is." We can have all the access we want to a concrete parking lot, but that access doesn't mean anything if that fish and wildlife habitat isn't there," said Tawney. Another pro-hunting group says what they are seeing within Interior is a fight between access and conservation." On the access front the department has been good. Access to our own public lands is a lot harder today than it ever has been, and that is in part introduced with the decline in hunting numbers we've seen," said Whit Fosburgh, president and CEO of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership, a non-profit coalition of conservation organizations and outdoor related businesses." On the conservation side however, I think it's a much less rosy picture," Fosburgh said. "It's been a lot more about expanding development, opening up to oil and gas. There has been no proactive conservation vision espoused for our public lands." Fosburgh said that the hunting community started getting "a little bit critical" of Zinke after he first announced the National Monument Review earlier this year. And he's skeptical of just how far the secretarial order will go." They use hunting and fishing for an excuse for our changes in monuments," he said. "All of the ones under review already allow hunting and fishing very clearly." Fosberg's criticism is similar to what environmental groups said following the secretarial order last week." Don't be fooled: the Trump Administration is pretending to be granting hunting and fishing rights that are already guaranteed by law and policy," said a statement from the Center for American Progress, a left-leaning thing tank. "The real story is that, with this announcement, the Trump administration is trying to create a distraction from their plans to dramatically reduce the size of America's national monuments, which would be the largest elimination of protections on wildlife habitat in US history." Nevertheless, Fosburgh said most pro-hunting and conservation minded groups are still hoping for the best with the Trump administration." We're very prepared, and we have been from day one. We supported his nomination and we are prepared to work with Secretary Zinke," he said. "We're not going to just say it's a lost cause in September of the first year of the administration."	False
488	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-07-06	"There is no reason to believe that Wheeler will fix the problems left behind and put children's health ahead of his industry friends."	Trump's EPA has also had difficulty in coming up with robust reasons why fuel efficiency rules for cars should be watered down, or what will replace the clean power plan, given that the agency is legally obliged to force down greenhouse gas emissions.	Pruitt's attempt to halt restrictions on emissions of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, was stymied by the courts, as were proposed delays to stricter limits of lead in paint and hazy ozone in urban areas.	But Pruitt was plagued by scandal and faltered in carrying out the president's agenda of peeling back clean air and water regulations.	The firm put to Trump a wish list of environmental rollbacks; Wheeler helped in its attempts to fight limits on toxic emissions such as mercury.	ruitt's removal is just the first step in restoring a strong EPA that gets back to its mission to protect public health and our environment," said Carol Browner, a long-serving EPA chief in Bill Clinton's administration. <sep> 	Andrew Wheeler: a better weapon for Trump against the environment Scott Pruitt, who on Thursday resigned as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, was a firm favourite of Donald Trump. But Pruitt was plagued by scandal and faltered in carrying out the president's agenda of peeling back clean air and water regulations. His replacement is likely to be far more adept. While Pruitt was a bête noire to environmentalists, for his zeal in targeting Obama-era rules and his dismissal of climate science, his attempts at deregulation were regularly framed as rushed and clumsy as they floundered in the courts. Andrew Wheeler, Pruitt's replacement at least in the interim, could be a more effective weapon for Trump. A consummate Washington insider and a former coal lobbyist, he will likely approach his work with the same ideology as Pruitt but without the flamboyance and ethical scandals – a far more dangerous prospect for those aghast at the Trump administration's attitude to the environment." ruitt's agenda was really Trump's agenda and I think Andrew is as fully committed to advancing it as Pruitt was," Myron Ebell, who led the EPA transition team for Trump and has known Wheeler for two decades, told the Guardian." e knows much more about managing the agency and the technical side of the environmental statutes that EPA is charged with enforcing than Pruitt. Undoing [Barack] Obama's regulatory onslaught at EPA is a key part of the president's economic revival agenda, and therefore Wheeler will be a point man for Trump just as Pruitt was." For opponents of the president, the prospect is a daunting one. "Scott Pruitt was the most scandal-plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption," said Christy Goldfuss, an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress. "There is no reason to believe that Wheeler will fix the problems left behind and put children's health ahead of his industry friends." Confirmed by the Senate as deputy EPA administrator in April, Wheeler is well versed in the machinations of the federal government. He spent four years at the EPA's office of pollution prevention in the Bush and Clinton administrators before working for Senator James Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican whose vocal rejection of climate change science involved theatrics such as bringing a snowball on to the Senate floor. Wheeler then became a lobbyist at Faegre Baker Daniels, where he represented Murray Energy, a major coal company, until August 2017. The firm put to Trump a wish list of environmental rollbacks; Wheeler helped in its attempts to fight limits on toxic emissions such as mercury. While working for Marco Rubio's presidential campaign in February 2016, Wheeler wrote a now-deleted Facebook post in which he called Trump a "PR person" and "a bully", which he said should "alone should disqualify him from the White House". That has not hindered his rise in the Trump administration. Shortly after his nomination in October, Wheeler sent an email to Ryan Jackson, Pruitt's chief of staff, with a link to an article by the satirical website the Onion that was headlined: "EPA Promotes Pulsating Black Sludge to Deputy Director." Welcome, pulsating black sludge," Jackson responded, in emails released under freedom of information laws. "I guess I'm going to have to get the cleaning crews to come in more often." Wheeler insisted he didn't want Pruitt's job. "I could have put my hat in the ring for the administrator," he said in June. "I wasn't interested in that. I am still not interested in that." Now that he is in the role he said he didn't covet, he will be tasked with completing the job of dismantling environmental and climate regulations. Pruitt went about it enthusiastically but ran into legal action launched by states such as New York and California, as well as environmental groups. Pruitt's attempt to halt restrictions on emissions of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, was stymied by the courts, as were proposed delays to stricter limits of lead in paint and hazy ozone in urban areas. Trump's EPA has also had difficulty in coming up with robust reasons why fuel efficiency rules for cars should be watered down, or what will replace the clean power plan, given that the agency is legally obliged to force down greenhouse gas emissions. Wheeler, with his knowledge of the rule-making process, will help manage such reversals while avoiding headlines over $1,500 fountain pens, Trump Hotel mattresses or Chick-fil-A franchises." e is low key and likes to keep a low profile," Ebell said. "He may have to do more public speaking than he wants to."A senior EPA official who did not wish to be named said: "I think it will be night and day with Wheeler, or at least night and late afternoon. He will talk to us. He's a human being, not a politician." Wheeler is likely to maintain Pruitt's close ties to industry, however. Under Trump, the fossil fuel industry has wielded unusual influence over the agency that supposedly regulates it and beleaguered staff fret that its public health mission is at risk of being buried." ruitt's removal is just the first step in restoring a strong EPA that gets back to its mission to protect public health and our environment," said Carol Browner, a long-serving EPA chief in Bill Clinton's administration. "Congress must ensure the next EPA administrator is not another industry insider."	False
437	motherjones	left_bias	2018-08-16	In it, the service writes, "Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires, along with the growing risk to lives, homes, natural resources, and other values."	"The longer Ryan Zinke continues to ignore these facts the greater the risks to homes and families."	And in the Appendix, the Forest Service writes, "effects of a changing climate" are a general threat to forest health."	It's true that Zinke changed his tune—after his earlier comments, Zinke told reporters Thursday that climate change has played a role in the fires and that global temperatures are rising.	The report comes at the same time the president has sent out misleading tweets about the causes and solutions of California's wildfires, and as Donald Trump's Interior head Ryan Zinke has blamed fires on environmentalists, denied climate change science, and called for more logging.	The report also includes a map of changes in fire weather seasons in the United States between 1979 and 2017, a phenomenon scientists warn is largely due to climate change:Though the Forest Service doesn't mention the words "climate change" specifically (as past versions of the plan have), it points out that "changes in temperature, precipitation patterns, and other environmental conditions" are all "driving factors" behind wildfires and other environmental challenges. <sep> 	The Trump Administration Will Not Be Happy About the Forest Service's New Fire Management Strategy As wildfires continue to rage across the West during a brutally hot summer, on Thursday the US Forest Service released its new forest fire management strategy that focuses on science and the changing climate. The report comes at the same time the president has sent out misleading tweets about the causes and solutions of California's wildfires, and as Donald Trump's Interior head Ryan Zinke has blamed fires on environmentalists, denied climate change science, and called for more logging. Zinke has said the forest fires have "nothing to do with climate change" and recently called the left "angry," "intolerant" and "uninformed" on the environment and public land management, according to the Huffington Post. But the Department of the Interior disputes this in an email to Mother Jones, saying, "The Secretary addressed the correlation between climate and fires dozens of times over the 48 hours he was in California and all week in interviews since returning. Additionally, in his op-ed, the Secretary directly addressed longer, hotter, drier seasons in the opening paragraphs." It's true that Zinke changed his tune—after his earlier comments, Zinke told reporters Thursday that climate change has played a role in the fires and that global temperatures are rising. Trump weighed in on California's fires on Twitter earlier this month, with tweets that were immediately described as false and misleading, saying, "California wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized…Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading!"Mother Jones asked an expert to decipher this nonsense, and you can read his analysis here. But today, the Forest Service, which is part of the Department of Agriculture, released a new 28-page fire-management strategy. In it, the service writes, "Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires, along with the growing risk to lives, homes, natural resources, and other values." The report also includes a map of changes in fire weather seasons in the United States between 1979 and 2017, a phenomenon scientists warn is largely due to climate change:Though the Forest Service doesn't mention the words "climate change" specifically (as past versions of the plan have), it points out that "changes in temperature, precipitation patterns, and other environmental conditions" are all "driving factors" behind wildfires and other environmental challenges. And in the Appendix, the Forest Service writes, "effects of a changing climate" are a general threat to forest health." t's a breath of fresh air to see science, instead of politics, inserted into forest and fire management," said Kirin Kennedy, associate legislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club, in a statement. "The longer Ryan Zinke continues to ignore these facts the greater the risks to homes and families."	True
278	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-07	This is something I've taken on in California, I have a history of working on this issue," she added.	It's a danger to the air we breathe.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	ut, most importantly, methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster," he added.	It called for the decarbonization of the economy and 100 percent clean energy over the next decade.		Elizabeth Warren Promises Day One Executive Order on Fossil Fuel Leases, Pledges to Ban Fracking Warren promised in a tweet Friday to "sign an executive order that puts a total moratorium on all new fossil fuel leases for drilling offshore and on public lands" and vowed to "ban fracking — everywhere":Warren's pledge to ban fracking follows Sen. Bernie Sanders' (I-VT) call, urging fellow Democrat candidates to support a "fracking ban on public and private lands." Fracking is a danger to our water supply. It's a danger to the air we breathe. It causes earthquakes. It's highly explosive. Safe fracking is, like clean coal, pure fiction," Sanders said in a statement Wednesday." ut, most importantly, methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster," he added. "When we are in the White House, we will end the era of fossil fuels, and that includes fracking":Ten Democrat candidates participated in CNN's seven-hour climate change town hall Wednesday, and many signaled support for the implementation of a carbon tax as well as plastic straw bans, actions on meat consumption, and the end of fracking." here's no question I'm in favor of banning fracking," Sen. Kamala Harris (D-CA) said during the town hall." tarting with what we can do on day one around public lands and then there has to be legislation, but yes. This is something I've taken on in California, I have a history of working on this issue," she added. Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) said he would ban fracking "right away on public lands." Warren released her comprehensive climate change proposal — inspired by Gov. Jay Inslee (D) — ahead of CNN's town hall. It called for the decarbonization of the economy and 100 percent clean energy over the next decade. While Warren did not go as far as Sanders in calling for the complete public ownership of utilities, she said she will tell companies that use carbon-based fuel that they are "done" by 2035." 'm perfectly willing to take on giant corporations. I think I've been known to do that once or twice. But for me, I think the way we get there is we just say, 'sorry guys, but by 2035, you're done,'" she said during CNN's town hall.	True
632	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-05	"This proposal goes one step further by shrinking the overall size of government and streamlining the regulatory state."	Conservative activists point out there's no deal to be made on trading federal environmental regulations for a carbon tax since Trump's already promised to roll back 75 percent of federal rules."	CLC says the tax could replace federal regulations and the revenues could be given back to Americans in the form of "dividends."	Spicer did not respond to a request for comment.A small group of Republicans have been pushing a carbon tax for years, arguing it's more efficient than federal regulations and could be used to offset revenue losses from reductions in tax rates.	They argue it's not very conservative to back what would essentially amount to a tax on energy, which would effectively raise the price of all goods and services.		White House Shoots Down Carbon Tax Rumors In The Press, Again The White House shot down rumors Tuesday that administration officials were considering a tax on carbon dioxide emissions. The Washington Post published a story on Tuesday citing two Trump administration officials who said a carbon tax and value added tax, or VAT, were under consideration as part of a broader tax reform plan. But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials, marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors." s we have said many times, the President's team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the President's plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986," deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPo's story." s of now, neither a carbon tax nor a VAT are under consideration," Walters said. Walters told reporters in March the Trump administration "is not considering a carbon tax" after press secretary Sean Spicer waffled on the question. White House officials met with a group of Republicans who back a carbon tax in early February. Spicer did not respond to a request for comment.A small group of Republicans have been pushing a carbon tax for years, arguing it's more efficient than federal regulations and could be used to offset revenue losses from reductions in tax rates. Most recently, old guard Republicans on the Climate Leadership Council (CLC) met with White House officials to pitch a carbon tax that would start at $40 per ton and rise over the years. CLC says the tax could replace federal regulations and the revenues could be given back to Americans in the form of "dividends." Many carbon tax proposals are revenue-neutral," reads the Council's plan. "This proposal goes one step further by shrinking the overall size of government and streamlining the regulatory state." The meeting sparked speculation that the White House was considering a carbon tax as part of a broader tax reform plan. Many carbon tax plans claim to raise $1 trillion over ten years. The White House has shot down such speculation, but some administration officials seem intent on telling media outlets a carbon tax is still being considered. Most Republicans don't buy into a carbon tax. They argue it's not very conservative to back what would essentially amount to a tax on energy, which would effectively raise the price of all goods and services. President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administration's "social cost of carbon" estimate. Trump signed an executive order in late March rescinding the Obama administration's "social cost of carbon" estimate. Trump also ordered the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to review and possibly rescind the Clean Power Plan — the cornerstone of the former administration's global warming agenda. Conservative activists point out there's no deal to be made on trading federal environmental regulations for a carbon tax since Trump's already promised to roll back 75 percent of federal rules." f the Trump Administration were to endorse this idea, they would not only be breaking a campaign commitment, but would essentially be negotiating against themselves on regulations," said Tom Pyle, president of the American Energy Alliance and former member of Trump's transition team. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	True
478	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2018-12-11	The precautions aren't enough for environmental groups, who have said the blasts can disturb marine mammals.	The governor and Attorney General (Alan) Wilson have resolved to continue working together to determine the best path forward," Symmes said.	Mace said she is concerned both with potential environmental damage and the possible threat to South Carolina's $20 billion tourism industry, much of which centers around the coast."	The drilling issue has created strange political bedfellows along the East Coast, with Democrats and Republicans in some areas united over the issue.	"We've got to do something, and a lawsuit might be the only way to do it."		Environmental groups to sue Trump administration over offshore drilling tests Environmental groups plan to sue the Trump administration over offshore drilling tests, launching a legal fight against a proposal that has drawn bipartisan opposition along the Atlantic Coast, two people with direct knowledge of the pending litigation told The Associated Press. The lawsuit, which aims to stop the issuance of permits for the use of seismic air guns, will be filed by a coalition of environmental groups in federal court in South Carolina on Tuesday, according to the individuals. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly before the suit is filed. The Trump administration has authorized five such permits, which aim to find oil and gas formations deeply below the Atlantic Ocean floor, from Delaware to central Florida, an area where seismic surveys haven't been conducted in decades. The blasts are conducted in preparation for potential offshore drilling, which the administration has proposed to expand from the Atlantic to the Arctic and Pacific oceans. The five-year plan would open 90 percent of the nation's offshore reserves to private development. Survey vessels will be required to have observers on board to listen and watch for marine life and alert operators if a protected species comes within a certain distance, officials have said, and acoustic monitoring will be used to detect those animals swimming beneath the ocean surface. Surveys would be shut down when certain sensitive species or groups are observed and penalties could be imposed for vessels that strike marine animals. The precautions aren't enough for environmental groups, who have said the blasts can disturb marine mammals. Industry groups say the surveys have been conducted around the world for decades, with little adverse impact. The drilling issue has created strange political bedfellows along the East Coast, with Democrats and Republicans in some areas united over the issue. In South Carolina's 1st Congressional District, Republican Katie Arrington — a supporter of President Donald Trump who initially said she stood by his plans to open up Atlantic Coast drilling — later backed off that support amid a growing wave of drilling opposition in the coastal district she aimed to represent. Arrington ultimately lost the general election to Joe Cunningham, a Democrat staunchly opposed to drilling who collected support from coastal Republican mayors. Voters said they had been turned off by what they saw as Arrington's flip-flop on the issue, and they turned instead to Cunningham's consistency. On Monday, Cunningham told the AP that he backed the legal effort, which would pair with legislative action he plans to take up in the U.S. House."I'm going to go up to D.C. and fight like hell," Cunningham said. "These lawsuits are one tool in our bag that we're going to use." South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster's early support of Trump's candidacy hasn't stopped him from opposing the president's drilling plans. Earlier this year, McMaster was among state executives to request a drilling waiver, seeking the same sort of promise already given to Florida Gov. Rick Scott, another Trump ally. Since then, officials from the Department of the Interior have said Secretary Ryan Zinke's promise to Florida was not a formal action and will instead be part of the department's analysis as it completes its plans. In February, McMaster met with Zinke at the Governor's Mansion in Columbia. This week, McMaster spokesman Brian Symmes told The Associated Press that the governor and the state's top prosecutor, both Republicans, would continue to work on a plan to keep drilling away from the state." The governor and Attorney General (Alan) Wilson have resolved to continue working together to determine the best path forward," Symmes said. "Anything and everything is on the table to keep us from seeing seismic testing or offshore drilling off the coast of South Carolina." State Rep. Nancy Mace, a Republican representing parts of the greater Charleston area, supports the lawsuit, which she called South Carolina's best option to challenge federal government overreach." The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing," Mace said. "When you have every mayor, every community saying, 'We don't want this,' and now you're going to shove seismic testing down our throats? I don't think so." Mace said she is concerned both with potential environmental damage and the possible threat to South Carolina's $20 billion tourism industry, much of which centers around the coast." We have the potential to destroy that beauty off our coast with rigs that nobody wants," Mace said. "We've got to do something, and a lawsuit might be the only way to do it."	True
410	vox	left_bias	2018-10-15	Whatever the reason, we have to be ready to deal with them."	Either there was a plan in place to deal with an unprecedented storm at Tyndall and it wasn't followed, or there wasn't one, and we're already seeing the consequences.	Conflicts exacerbated by drought, heat, and storms are a major concern for defense planners.	However, as Hurricane Michael showed, there's a vast gulf between acknowledging climate change and adequately preparing for it.	Plans include raising coastal infrastructure, protecting vulnerable supply chains, and increasing disaster training.	"I believe the climate is changing. <sep> However, Lengyel waffled on humanity's role in shaping the climate behind these storms. <sep> For its part, the military has been blunt about the risks posed by climate change, describing it as a "threat multiplier." <sep> The effects of a changing climate … will impact our security situation," said Defense Secretary James Mattis during his confirmation hearing. <sep> 	Hurricane Michael showed how woefully unprepared the military is for extreme weather Hurricane Michael roared through the Florida Panhandle last week with 155 mph winds and a storm surge that reached 14 feet, killing at least 18 people in four states, destroying homes, and knocking down power lines serving millions of customers. Tyndall Air Force Base near Panama City, Florida, took a direct hit and suffered heavy damage. "The flight line is devastated. Every building has severe damage. Many buildings are a complete loss," according to the base's most recent storm damage update. Of particular concern were the base's F-22 Raptor aircraft, the most sophisticated fighter jet in the Air Force's arsenal. The stealth fighters cost $377 million apiece (if you include research and development costs), and the Air Force has 183 of them in its inventory. Tyndall is home to 55 of those F-22s. The New York Times reported that 33 of the Raptors were sent to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio, leaving several of the highly valuable aircraft in the path of the storm. A spokesperson for the Air Force declined to give any tallies for damaged aircraft at Tyndall, saying that crews are still assessing the scale of the damage. However, photos taken by passers-by show several F-22s in damaged hangars. We don't yet know the full extent of the damage across Tyndall or to the F-22s in particular. Reports now indicate that most of the F-22 aircraft that remained at Tyndall survived the storm intact and with repairable damage. But the fact that expensive hardware was housed in exposed structures on the Gulf Coast illustrates how vulnerable the military is to extreme weather, especially as storms like hurricanes gain a boost from climate change. It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures. Conflicts exacerbated by drought, heat, and storms are a major concern for defense planners. Military installations themselves are also at risk: At least 128 bases face inundation from sea level rise. With billions of dollars of assets in harm's way and more weather extremes on the horizon, making and enacting disaster plans are becoming all the more critical for the military. While Hurricane Michael was the first Category 4 storm to make landfall in the Florida Panhandle on record, major hurricanes have struck the region in the past. Tyndall Air Force Base spans more than 29,000 acres and is home to almost 4,000 active military personnel. Officials say that base staff and their families were evacuated ahead of the storm, and since Michael passed, no fatalities or injuries were reported. But the base's runways sit adjacent to barrier islands (including the aptly named "Hurricane Island") and were particularly at risk for damage from extreme weather. A hangar on the base even served as a refuge for other Raptors in May as Subtropical Storm Alberto hit the region. Tyler Rogoway at The Drive wrote a compelling explanation for why all the valuable aircraft weren't simply flown out of harm's way:At modern fighter is not a Honda Accord. You don't just hop in it and drive it around for months until you finally have to take it for a one-hour oil change when the light comes on. If anything, they are far more akin to high-end sports cars that require a lot of expensive TLC to keep operating. The F-22, in particular, is more analogous to an exotic supercar or even a high-end race car than anything else. It requires dozens of hours of maintenance for every single flight hour and deep maintenance can take days or even many weeks to accomplish, depending on what is needed to be done and availability of spare parts, which can be scarce. The aircraft that weren't removed were likely undergoing maintenance and couldn't be readied in time for transportation, especially given that Hurricane Michael gained strength so fast. However, given that there are so few F-22s overall (the Air Force has more than 400 F-15s and more than 1,000 F-16s) and that Raptors are no longer being manufactured, each lost or damaged F-22 presents a large loss of capability. The coastal bases that house sensitive equipment like F-22s also face hazards, particularly from extreme weather. As climate change pushes average temperatures up, the raw ingredients of hurricanes — water temperature and air temperature — also intensify. Water temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico were 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit higher than is typical this time of year. Michael's rapid ramp-up also comports with what scientists expect from global warming. "As the climate continues to warm, hurricanes may intensify more rapidly just before striking land, making hurricane forecasting more difficult," wrote Massachusetts Institute of Technology climate scientist Kerry Emanuel in a 2017 paper in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. For its part, the military has been blunt about the risks posed by climate change, describing it as a "threat multiplier." The effects of a changing climate … will impact our security situation," said Defense Secretary James Mattis during his confirmation hearing. The military assembled an adaptation roadmap in 2014, chalking out how they plan to contend with climate change. Plans include raising coastal infrastructure, protecting vulnerable supply chains, and increasing disaster training. And the head of the National Guard, Air Force Gen. Joseph Lengyel, told Vox's Alex Ward last week, "There's a lot of storms coming our way. Whatever the reason, we have to be ready to deal with them." However, Lengyel waffled on humanity's role in shaping the climate behind these storms. "I believe the climate is changing. I don't know why," he said. However, as Hurricane Michael showed, there's a vast gulf between acknowledging climate change and adequately preparing for it. Either there was a plan in place to deal with an unprecedented storm at Tyndall and it wasn't followed, or there wasn't one, and we're already seeing the consequences.	False
50	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-10-31	"We are pretty confident that the carbon balance between the atmosphere and ocean must have changed, but we don't quite know how or why."	Using computer simulations, the research looked at past changes during the glacial periods and noted that previous increases in sea ice levels may have significantly altered the circulation of the ocean, which led to a reverse greenhouse effect as carbon dioxide levels in the ocean increased and levels in the air decreased."	Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling, but additional factors have likely played a part, Jensen added."	Upside-down "rivers" of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up, leading to a rise in sea levels.	he most plausible explanation is that there was some change in how carbon was divided between the atmosphere and the ocean," Jansen continued.	What surprised me is how much of this increased storage can be attributed to physical changes alone, with Antarctic sea-ice cover being the key player," Marzocchi added, noting that future study of the ocean and the role it plays in the carbon cycle can help simulate "future environmental change." <sep> 	Explosion in Antarctic sea ice levels may cause another ice age? Upside-down "rivers" of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up, leading to a rise in sea levels. A new study suggests that, in the past, increases in Antarctic sea ice in colder climates may have contributed to ice ages. Using computer simulations, the research looked at past changes during the glacial periods and noted that previous increases in sea ice levels may have significantly altered the circulation of the ocean, which led to a reverse greenhouse effect as carbon dioxide levels in the ocean increased and levels in the air decreased." ne key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages," University of Chicago professor and the study's co-author, Malte Jansen, said in a statement. "We are pretty confident that the carbon balance between the atmosphere and ocean must have changed, but we don't quite know how or why." ANTARCTICA'S ICE SHEETS CONTAIN RADIOACTIVE CHLORINE GAS 60 YEARS AFTER NUCLEAR TESTS, STUDY SAYSThe last major ice age ended at the end of the Pleistocene epoch, about 11,700 years ago, as glaciers have periodically grown and then gotten smaller. Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling, but additional factors have likely played a part, Jensen added." he most plausible explanation is that there was some change in how carbon was divided between the atmosphere and the ocean," Jansen continued. "There's no shortage of ideas about how this happens, but it's not quite clear how they all fit together." Researchers also believe a mini-ice age may have occurred roughly 12,800 years ago. It likely stems from an asteroid impact that "rocked the Northern Hemisphere" and led to the Younger Dryas climate event. Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica "plays a key role in ocean circulation" due to the deep waters in the region, leading it to have "outsize[d] consequences." AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING, NEW STUDY FINDS"What this suggests is that it's a feedback loop," said the study's lead author, Alice Marzocchi. "As the temperature drops, less carbon is released into the atmosphere, which triggers more cooling." What surprised me is how much of this increased storage can be attributed to physical changes alone, with Antarctic sea-ice cover being the key player," Marzocchi added, noting that future study of the ocean and the role it plays in the carbon cycle can help simulate "future environmental change." The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPCorrection: A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events. It was only about past events.	False
624	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-10-09	Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming."	"This doesn't immediately bring everything back, but we think it stops further decline of coal fired plants in the United States and that means there will still be some market here."	Closely aligned with the oil and gas industry in his home state, Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man-made emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	Trump is not just ignoring the deadly cost of pollution, he's ignoring the clean energy deployment that is rapidly creating jobs across the country," said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club.	For Pruitt, getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.		EPA terminates Obama's climate plan... HAZARD, Ky. (AP) — A coalition of left-leaning states and environmental groups are vowing to fight the Trump administration's move to kill an Obama-era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants. Speaking Monday in the coal-mining state of Kentucky, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt said he would be issuing a new set of rules overriding the Clean Power Plan, the centerpiece of President Barack Obama's drive to curb global climate change." The war on coal is over," Pruitt declared, adding that no federal agency should ever use its authority to "declare war on any sector of our economy." It was not immediately clear if Pruitt would seek to issue a new rule without congressional approval, which Republicans had criticized the Obama administration for doing. Pruitt's rule wouldn't become final for months, and is then highly likely to face a raft of legal challenges. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman was among those who said they will sue." The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change — and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation — is reprehensible, and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda," said Schneiderman, a Democrat. For Pruitt, getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma. Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop Obama's 2014 push to limit carbon emissions, stymieing the limits from ever taking effect. Closely aligned with the oil and gas industry in his home state, Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man-made emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change. President Donald Trump, who appointed Pruitt and shares his skepticism of established climate science, promised to kill the Clean Power Plan during the 2016 campaign as part of his broader pledge to revive the nation's struggling coal mines. In his order Tuesday, Pruitt is expected to declare that the Obama-era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. Pruitt appeared at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell at Whayne Supply in Hazard, Kentucky, a company that sells coal mining supplies. The store's owners have been forced to lay off about 60 percent of its workers in recent years. While cheering the demise of the Clean Power Plan as a way to stop the bleeding, McConnell conceded most of those lost jobs are never coming back."A lot of damage has been done," said McConnell, a Kentucky Republican. "This doesn't immediately bring everything back, but we think it stops further decline of coal fired plants in the United States and that means there will still be some market here." Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power-plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following legal challenges by industry and coal-friendly states. Even so, the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal-fired plants, which are also being squeezed by low cost natural gas and renewable power. In the absence of stricter federal regulations curbing greenhouse gas emissions, many states have issued their own mandates promoting energy conservation. The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change, including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal-burning power plants. On Thursday, Trump nominated former coal-industry lobbyist Andrew Wheeler to serve as Pruitt's top deputy at EPA — one of several recent political appointees at the agency with direct ties to the fossil fuel interests. The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming." This president has tremendous courage," Pruitt said Monday. "He put America first and said to the rest of the world we are going to say no and exit the Paris Accord. That was the right thing to do." Despite the rhetoric about saving coal, government statistics show that coal mines currently employ only about 52,000 workers nationally — a modest 4-percent uptick since Trump became president. Those numbers are dwarfed by the jobs created by building such clean power infrastructure as wind turbines and solar arrays." Trump is not just ignoring the deadly cost of pollution, he's ignoring the clean energy deployment that is rapidly creating jobs across the country," said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club. Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker reported from Washington. Follow him at  story has been corrected to show the percentage of coal jobs created under Trump was 4 percent.	True
146	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-05-08	ou know what there's not is a shall for 'I shall manage the land to stop climate change,' or something similar to that," he said, pointing the finger at Congress.	Bernhardt responded by noting that there are over 600 instances in the law directing the Interior Department secretary to do certain things, including completing reports and making certain authorizations, but, he said, there is no such mandate for addressing planetary warming."	But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change, environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials.A sobering United Nations report released Monday found that up to 1 million species of land and marine species are at risk of extinction due to human actions.	She asked Bernhardt how he would incorporate the scientific findings into the agency's activities and asked if he would rethink the administration's push to boost domestic energy production."	Bernhardt, a former oil and gas lobbyist who was confirmed as agency secretary last month, told the subcommittee that he recognizes that the climate is changing, that human beings are "a contributing factor" and that the agency is taking the threat into account in its decision-making.A pair of dire reports released last year, one from the United Nations and another from more than a dozen federal U.S. agencies, warned that world governments are running out of time to stave off catastrophic climate change.		Interior Chief Blames Congress For His Inaction On Climate Change Taking his previous statements even further, Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told lawmakers Tuesday that he is not obligated to combat climate change because there is no law requiring that he do so. Bernhardt responded by noting that there are over 600 instances in the law directing the Interior Department secretary to do certain things, including completing reports and making certain authorizations, but, he said, there is no such mandate for addressing planetary warming." ou know what there's not is a shall for 'I shall manage the land to stop climate change,' or something similar to that," he said, pointing the finger at Congress. The hearing was the first of two appearances Bernhardt has before Congress this week to defend the Trump administration's 2020 budget request, which calls for a 14% cut in funding for the Department of the Interior. But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change, environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials.A sobering United Nations report released Monday found that up to 1 million species of land and marine species are at risk of extinction due to human actions. Neither Bernhardt nor the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, an agency he oversees and that is primarily responsible for safeguarding the nation's imperiled species, issued a statement about the report. Rep. Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), the subcommittee's chair, quoted from the U.N. report and told Bernhardt the "country is depending on you to help lead the fight along with us to combat these issues," including the biodiversity and climate crises. She asked Bernhardt how he would incorporate the scientific findings into the agency's activities and asked if he would rethink the administration's push to boost domestic energy production." re we going to stop oil and gas development because of this report? The answer to that is no," Bernhardt said. "Congress, you all, have the ability to decide whether we do anything on federal lands. ... If you have a view on what you want to happen, we'll carry it out when you execute it. That is my position." Bernhardt, a former oil and gas lobbyist who was confirmed as agency secretary last month, told the subcommittee that he recognizes that the climate is changing, that human beings are "a contributing factor" and that the agency is taking the threat into account in its decision-making.A pair of dire reports released last year, one from the United Nations and another from more than a dozen federal U.S. agencies, warned that world governments are running out of time to stave off catastrophic climate change. Still, the Trump administration has barreled ahead with its fossil fuel-centric "energy dominance" agenda. Approximately one-quarter of all U.S. greenhouse gas emissions come from fossil fuel extraction on federal lands, according to a government report released by the Trump administration in November. Bernhardt, who brought with him to the job a slew of potential conflicts of interest from his days as an energy lobbyist, also faced tough questions Tuesday about alleged ethics violations. Interior's internal watchdog recently opened two ethics probes ― the first of them just four days into Bernhardt's tenure ― into multiple high-ranking interior officials, including the secretary. Bernhardt stressed, as he has before, that he takes ethics extremely seriously, is working to improve the agency's ethics program and is confident that he has complied with all rules and will be cleared at the end of the investigation.	False
184	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2019-09-06	You know, for too long, there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection," Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change.	The purpose of this letter is to put California on notice that this framework agreement appears to be inconsistent with federal law," the letter said.	Many experts, including former EPA engineers, have challenged the administration's safety assertion.	The varied standards mean automakers have had to make extra effort in either making two types of cars or manufacturing them all in accordance with the higher California standards.	The Trump administration has argued that the extra expense to comply with the emissions requirements will raise the price of new cars, making them unaffordable and depriving buyers of new safety technology.		Trump administration challenges California on fuel economy standards The Trump administration is challenging California over the state's new automotive emissions and fuel economy "framework" agreement with automakers, insisting setting such standards is the federal government's role. Lawyers at the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Transportation on Friday sent a letter to the chairman of the California Air Resources Board, following California's July "framework" agreement with Ford, Volkswagen, Honda and BMW to abide by certain new greenhouse gas emissions standards." The purpose of this letter is to put California on notice that this framework agreement appears to be inconsistent with federal law," the letter said. "Congress has squarely vested the authority to set fuel economy standards for new motor vehicles, and nationwide standards for GHG vehicle emissions, with the federal government, not with California or any other state." Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law, we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers," the letter added. California had imposed stricter fuel economy and emissions standards long before July, and some of the state's laws were enacted before the Clean Air Act. Congress granted a waiver to allow California to enact its own standards, and a dozen other states also adopted California's standards. The varied standards mean automakers have had to make extra effort in either making two types of cars or manufacturing them all in accordance with the higher California standards. President Trump has pushed for months to weaken Obama-era mileage standards nationwide. Those standards were designed to make cars more fuel efficient and reduce pollution. The administration moves to rescind California's authority are likely to prompt legal battles. When President George W. Bush challenged California's greenhouse gas emissions and mileage-setting ability, California fought it in the courts. The Obama administration subsequently dropped the Bush effort. The Trump administration has argued that the extra expense to comply with the emissions requirements will raise the price of new cars, making them unaffordable and depriving buyers of new safety technology. Many experts, including former EPA engineers, have challenged the administration's safety assertion. Mr. Trump has long advocated for the auto industry, and his administration has emphasized that environmental concerns cannot trump economic considerations." You know, for too long, there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection," Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change. "That's a false choice, and it's one that you've talked about, Mr. President.  It's always been this country, and this country that leads — just like you reminded people last Thursday — the greatness of America, the innovation of America.  And the future of this world will rely greatly upon America and this administration."	False
388	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-12-08	But while the report seeks to link wildfire to climate change, it glosses over the real reason fires have grown in intensity and size: the 30 years of increased environmental restrictions on logging, brush clearance and preventive burns that caused a massive and dangerous fuel buildup—a problem that was predicted years ago and has nothing to do with global warming.	Two problems, though: the authors assume the worst-case and least likely scenario, with average temperatures more than 14 degrees Fahrenheit hotter by 2100; and they derive two-thirds of their economic losses estimate by claiming a large amount of premature deaths due to the hotter temperatures.	Those who see climate change as a dire and urgent threat have some work to do to convince voters in the Western democracies to give up their way of life in exchange for unspecified benefits of a slightly less warm world—and that's assuming China, India and over a billion people in Africa can be convinced not to try to pull themselves out of poverty—something that may only be done with greater use of fossil fuels.	An example of the former can be seen in the new National Climate Assessment.	The bottom line is this: economic freedom—the kind you get with a large middle class—leads to prosperity, economic growth, and technological innovation.	Thus, one well-worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live, where to live, and how to work—all of the good of the planet, of course—is the alarmist study, making copious use of lies of omission and commission. <sep> 	Is America Next? The City of Lights, Paris, has been illuminated in recent days by cars set alight by thousands of protesting "Yellow Vests"—largely middle class people who earn their living by driving or who commute to get to work. The cause of their ire is a scheduled 25 cents-per-gallon increase in gas taxes, and about 10 cents on diesel, to fight climate change. French President Macron, deeply unpopular, just reversed course on the new green tax—Parisians are already paying about $7.06 per gallon for gasoline, almost half of that in taxes. If Paris streets burned over a proposed 25 cents per gallon climate change tax, imagine the global conflagration over a $49 per gallon tax. That's what a United Nations special climate report calls for in 12 years, with a carbon tax of $5,500 per ton—equal to $49 per gallon of gasoline or diesel. That's about 100 times today's average state and federal motor fuels tax. By 2100, the U.N. estimates that a carbon tax of $27,000 per ton is needed—$240 per gallon—to limit global warming to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius. Of course, that isn't going to happen. The economic wreckage of such a punitive tax would plunge the global economy into a permanent depression—and that's assuming politicians could enact such huge tax increases over the will of their voters. Keep in mind that the unrest in France was triggered by a looming 25-cent hike, which is a little less than 10% more in taxes than French drivers already pay. To meet the $49 per gallon tax hike recommended by the U.N., fuel taxes in France would have to go up 17-fold. The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed. They don't earn enough to be part of the elite unconcerned with fuel taxes, but they work hard enough that they don't qualify for the generous welfare benefits handed out to the nation's poor and to newly arrived immigrants from Africa and the Middle East. Here in America, Republicans in Congress passed a resolution against carbon taxes over the summer while Democrats embraced the concept in their party platform. Some incoming members of the new Democratic majority in the House are calling to create a select committee to map out a "Green New Deal" that would move the U.S. toward using 100% renewable energy for the electric grid while guaranteeing jobs for everyone. In the meantime, opinion polls indicate that 54% of Americans do not believe global warming will cause major problems within their lifetimes. So how do climate activists get their way? Some openly talk of imposing authoritarian governance to override democratic institutions. Former NASA climate researcher James Hansen suggested in 2007 that "the democratic process does not work." Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of "deniers." Those who see climate change as a dire and urgent threat have some work to do to convince voters in the Western democracies to give up their way of life in exchange for unspecified benefits of a slightly less warm world—and that's assuming China, India and over a billion people in Africa can be convinced not to try to pull themselves out of poverty—something that may only be done with greater use of fossil fuels. Thus, one well-worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live, where to live, and how to work—all of the good of the planet, of course—is the alarmist study, making copious use of lies of omission and commission. An example of the former can be seen in the new National Climate Assessment. The report's first chapter lists recent natural disasters, citing this summer's deadly Carr Fire in California as an example. But while the report seeks to link wildfire to climate change, it glosses over the real reason fires have grown in intensity and size: the 30 years of increased environmental restrictions on logging, brush clearance and preventive burns that caused a massive and dangerous fuel buildup—a problem that was predicted years ago and has nothing to do with global warming. The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that they're supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president: Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg. Here we're told that the U.S. economy will take a 10% hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions. Two problems, though: the authors assume the worst-case and least likely scenario, with average temperatures more than 14 degrees Fahrenheit hotter by 2100; and they derive two-thirds of their economic losses estimate by claiming a large amount of premature deaths due to the hotter temperatures. The latter claim is highly problematic as death rates in regions far hotter than in the U.S. aren't meaningfully different, when accounting for the standard of living. Why? People adapt rather easily. This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN, but it is far from sound science or even good economics. The bottom line is this: economic freedom—the kind you get with a large middle class—leads to prosperity, economic growth, and technological innovation. And it's these three things: wealth, growth and technology, which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth, not $240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	False
167	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-02-06	"I don't think that future presidents will find themselves in this position, because people are feeling the effects of climate change."	"Furthermore, the scientists tell us we have a very short, 12 years, not a lot of time in order to transform our energy system away from fossil fuels."	However, Bernie Sanders, in his own response speech, noted warnings in reports from the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change."	ow can a president of the United States give a State of the Union speech and not mention – not one word – about climate change when the leading scientists of the world tell us that climate change is real, that climate change is caused by human activity, that climate change is already causing devastating harm in the United States," Sanders said.	have been doing research on climate change since the 1970s, and it always seemed very far away in time and space.		Trump State of the Union speech: what climate change experts say A climate scientist and a former government expert in the audience for Donald Trump's annual address to Congress said this will probably be the last administration that can forgo talking about climate change in the State of the Union speech. Trump did not mention rising temperatures or extreme weather, although he did tout the country's status as the top producer of oil and gas and boast about how quickly his officials have moved to cut regulations. Lisa Graumlich, the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington, attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal."  have been doing research on climate change since the 1970s, and it always seemed very far away in time and space. It was something that was going to happen when people's grandchildren were alive. And that has changed," Graumlich said. "I don't think that future presidents will find themselves in this position, because people are feeling the effects of climate change." Joel Clement, who resigned from the interior department because he said the administration was muzzling scientists and ignoring climate change effects on vulnerable communities, now works with the Union of Concerned Scientists. He was invited by the Maine congressman Chellie Pingree." he Trump administration's strategy is to ignore climate change and pretend it doesn't exist and pretend the science doesn't exist even if it's coming from its own agencies," Clement said. "To not say anything about it is just ignorance, and it's irresponsible." In 10 years, Clement said, climate change will be central to all policy discussions, as one of the top three or four issues in the world, Clement said. Several other high-profile climate advocates were invited by other Democrats protesting against Trump's doubts of the science and his rollbacks. The New York congressman Paul Tonko invited the League of Conservation Voters' Gene Karpinski and the Maryland congressman Jamie Raskin brought along 350. org's Bill McKibben. The Massachusetts senator Ed Markey attended with the head of the youth-led Sunrise Movement, Varshini Prakash, who is calling for a Green New Deal to tackle inequality and quickly cut greenhouse gas emissions. Markey is expected to join Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez this week in releasing expanded language on the high-level goals of a Green New Deal. Even the Democratic rebuttal to Trump's speech, by the ex-Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams, only mentioned climate change once, in a list of priorities the US could pursue. However, Bernie Sanders, in his own response speech, noted warnings in reports from the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change." ow can a president of the United States give a State of the Union speech and not mention – not one word – about climate change when the leading scientists of the world tell us that climate change is real, that climate change is caused by human activity, that climate change is already causing devastating harm in the United States," Sanders said. "Furthermore, the scientists tell us we have a very short, 12 years, not a lot of time in order to transform our energy system away from fossil fuels." While very little of the primetime speeches focused on climate change, Democrats will hold two hearings in the House on Wednesday about its effects.	True
706	CNN	left_bias	2017-06-02	]"For many, the administration's reluctance to deal with the idea of climate change comes down to one thought -- that economic growth and climate awareness cannot go hand in hand."	"They are complaining about uncertainty but at the same time increasing uncertainty by cutting back on ways to measure [climate change.	Instead, the USGS release leaves the cause unmentioned .	Instead, there is an administration-wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether.	It begins: "The frequency and severity of coastal flooding throughout the world will increase rapidly and eventually double in frequency over the coming decades even with only moderate amounts of sea level rise.	"It can strengthen United States company's competitiveness in the global markets." <sep> Three of the study's scientist authors told The Washington Post that they had to ultimately delete a line from the report that read "Global climate change drives sea-level rise, increasing the frequency of coastal flooding." <sep> Except the release had one thing missing -- any mention of climate change. <sep> It doesn't change reality -- it's just a way for them to de-emphasize something the rest of the world knows is going on." <sep> "So, no, I would not agree that it's a primary contributor to the global warming that we see." <sep> This is not about whether climate change is occurring or not," Pruitt said on "The Lead." <sep> EPA has challenged scientific findings on climate change -- including by its own in-house scientists. <sep> 	Trump doesn't want to talk about climate change Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump spent an hour Thursday talking about his commitment to economic growth and national stability as he announced the decision to back out of the Paris Climate Accord. After famously calling climate change a "hoax" during the campaign, Trump has avoided the issue of increased man-made greenhouse gas emissions and their impact on global temperatures. Asked Wednesday if Trump thinks human activity is contributing to climate change, White House press secretary Sean Spicer responded , "Honestly, I haven't asked him that. I can get back to you." Two White House officials avoided similar questions at a background briefing with reporters after Trump's speech Thursday. And EPA chief Scott Pruitt dodged the question in an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper." This is not about whether climate change is occurring or not," Pruitt said on "The Lead." The pattern of the White House has been to turn away from the discussion of climate change without taking the step to argue directly that global warming isn't real. Instead, there is an administration-wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether. In recent months, Trump proposed cutting the Environmental Protection Agency budget by more than 30%. EPA has challenged scientific findings on climate change -- including by its own in-house scientists. And EPA cut climate information from its website. Former deputy EPA administrator under President Barack Obama, Bob Perciasepe, said the Trump administration's avoidance of the term "just makes them seem out of touch with reality." Climate change is happening, whether they speak about it or not," said Perciasepe, who currently serves as president of the nonprofit Center for Climate and Energy Solutions. "You can't make something not real if you just don't talk about it. It doesn't change reality -- it's just a way for them to de-emphasize something the rest of the world knows is going on." On Wednesday, the White House declared June National Oceans Month and Great Outdoors Month. While the proclamations -- a relatively standard annual designation -- praised the US's oceans and natural landscapes, the language clearly differed from Obama's. Where Obama's 2016 proclamations discussed the impacts of global warming, including drought and rising sea levels, Trump's focused on energy production, fisheries management and tourism with no mention of climate change. And the administration is adopting the same reasoning in press releases. Last month, the Interior Department released a study by the U.S. Geological Survey that highlighted the link between sea-level rise and global climate change. Except the release had one thing missing -- any mention of climate change. Three of the study's scientist authors told The Washington Post that they had to ultimately delete a line from the report that read "Global climate change drives sea-level rise, increasing the frequency of coastal flooding." Instead, the USGS release leaves the cause unmentioned . It begins: "The frequency and severity of coastal flooding throughout the world will increase rapidly and eventually double in frequency over the coming decades even with only moderate amounts of sea level rise."A defense against believing humans are responsible for climate change is that scientific studies are not 100% certain -- a stance frequently used by members of the Trump administration that muddles the scientific consensus that man-made emissions are driving global warming."I think that measuring with precision human activity on the climate is something very challenging to do, and there's tremendous disagreement about the degree of impact," Pruitt said in a CNBC interview in March . "So, no, I would not agree that it's a primary contributor to the global warming that we see." While the White House may be against jumping to conclusions on the available scientific studies -- with Pruitt even calling for more data from industry scientists -- the administration has done little to back up those calls monetarily. In fact, instead of spending money to further study the effects and reality, or unreality of global warming -- the administration has opted instead to cut much of the major funding that would go towards the studies." It is hypocritical," said Andrew Rosenberg, director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists. "They are complaining about uncertainty but at the same time increasing uncertainty by cutting back on ways to measure [climate change.]"For many, the administration's reluctance to deal with the idea of climate change comes down to one thought -- that economic growth and climate awareness cannot go hand in hand." The idea that they are operating on is that the US will be at a disadvantage if it deals with climate change. Most businesses would think that working on the climate issues can and has been creating jobs," said Perciasepe. "It can strengthen United States company's competitiveness in the global markets."	False
387	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-03-24	But global warming and rising sea levels threatened to wipe out many species that cannot adapt to change quickly enough "in a blink of an eye."	But rising sea levels caused by climate change could put these pockets at risk, disrupting these freshwater distributions and leading to extinctions as a result.	The researchers said lower rates of diversification mean it will take longer for carideans to recover from the extinctions that are already inevitably underway.	Humans sleepwalking into mass extinction of species not seen since dinosaurs...	Diversity takes millions of years to evolve, but can be damaged in the blink of an eye.		Humans sleepwalking into mass extinction of species not seen since dinosaurs... Humans are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of species not seen since the demise of the dinosaurs, British scientists warned. Man-made global change is threatening the diversity of different creatures that have taken millennia to evolve to live in niche habitats. Creatures that have moved into delicate ecosystems such as coral reefs often live in symbiosis with others and are the slowest to recover their diversity if damaged. But global warming and rising sea levels threatened to wipe out many species that cannot adapt to change quickly enough "in a blink of an eye." In particular freshwater habitats are teeming with diverse birds and mammals but they are often form isolated pockets which are vulnerable to sudden change. Professor of Evolutionary Paleobiology Matthew Wills at the Milner Centre for Evolution at the University of Bath said:We are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of a magnitude unparalleled since the asteroid impact that wiped out the dinosaurs. Astonishingly, we know remarkably little about the physical and biological forces that shape patterns of diversity on a global scale. For example, why are there over a million species of insects but only 32 species in their immediate sister group, the little known remipedes? Diversity takes millions of years to evolve, but can be damaged in the blink of an eye. We are already losing diversity that has never even been documented, so it's vitally important to understand the mechanisms that drive evolution into new species. The scientists looked at how the humble caridean shrimp has evolved and diversified since it first appeared in the Lower Jurassic. There are now around 3,500 species worldwide living in salt and fresh water habitats and are a vital component of the marine food chain, and an important contribution to fisheries worldwide. Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis, an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained:Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda. Changes in ecology may go some way to explain the often strongly asymmetrical fates of sister clades, and we test this in the caridean shrimps. There are, depending upon estimates, between two and 50 million extant species of animals (Metazoa), all derived from a single common ancestral species that lived some 650 million years ago. Net rates of speciation therefore exceed rates of extinction, but the balance of these processes varies greatly, both between clades and throughout geological time. The scientists examined the patterns of diversity change across the crustaceans's evolutionary tree. By time-calibrating the largest ever evolutionary tree for carideans against both fossil and molecular dates, it was possible to explore where rates of diversification sped up and slowed down over the last 200 million years. They found the shrimp have independently transitioned from marine to freshwater habitats repeatedly, creating much richer pockets of biodiversity. The relative isolation of lakes and rivers appear to increase the diversity of species in a similar way to Darwin's finches on island chains. But rising sea levels caused by climate change could put these pockets at risk, disrupting these freshwater distributions and leading to extinctions as a result. By contrast, many marine shrimp live in close symbiotic associations with a variety of other animals including corals and sponges, which appears to have slowed their diversification rate. Symbioses are most common in shallow reef settings: among the most diverse but notoriously delicately balanced and threatened marine ecosystems. The researchers said lower rates of diversification mean it will take longer for carideans to recover from the extinctions that are already inevitably underway. Co-author Sammy de Grave, head of research at the Oxford University Museum added:The study was published in the journal Communications Biology.	False
12	foxnews	right_bias	2019-04-10	Washington state blocked the building of a coal terminal in 2017, saying there were too many major harmful impacts including air pollution, rail safety and vehicle traffic.	The groups said in an April 5 letter that individual states shouldn't be able to use provisions of the Clear Air Act "to dictate national policy, thereby harming other states and the national interest and damaging cooperative federalism."	While the move was greeted warmly by members of the country's oil and gas industries, it is likely to rankle some more traditional conservative lawmakers – including several Republican governors - worried about the federal government impinging on individual state rights and governance.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Environmental groups described Trump's order as an effort to short-circuit a state's ability to review complicated projects, putting at risk a state's ability to protect drinking water supplies and wildlife."		Trump signs executive orders making it tougher for states to block pipeline construction President Trump on Wednesday signed two executive orders that will make it harder for states to block the construction of oil and gas pipelines and other energy projects due to environmental concerns. Coming on the heels of officials in Washington state and New York using permitting processes to stop new energy projects in recent years – and at the urging of some industry leaders – Trump's executive order will speed up the construction of oil and gas pipelines across the country." y action today will cut through the destructive permitting and denials," Trump said during the signing of the executive orders at the International Union of Operating Engineers International Training and Education Center, a union-run facility in Crosby, Texas. "Under this administration, we've ended the war on American energy." It will take no more than 60 days," Trump said of the approval process for new pipelines, "and the president, not the bureaucracy, will make the final decision." While the move was greeted warmly by members of the country's oil and gas industries, it is likely to rankle some more traditional conservative lawmakers – including several Republican governors - worried about the federal government impinging on individual state rights and governance. The White House has sought to stave off any discord by arguing that the order is not meant to take power away from the states, but to ensure that state actions follow the intent of the Clean Water Act. Trade groups representing the oil and gas industry applauded the orders and said greater access to natural gas benefits families and the environment." When states say 'no' to the development of natural gas pipelines, they force utilities to curb safe and affordable service and refuse access to new customers, including new businesses," said Karen Harbert, president and CEO at the American Gas Association. Trump's move comes less than a week after nearly a dozen business groups told EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler that the environmental review and permitting process for energy infrastructure projects "has become a target for environmental activists and states that oppose the production and use of fossil fuels." The groups said in an April 5 letter that individual states shouldn't be able to use provisions of the Clear Air Act "to dictate national policy, thereby harming other states and the national interest and damaging cooperative federalism." Washington state blocked the building of a coal terminal in 2017, saying there were too many major harmful impacts including air pollution, rail safety and vehicle traffic. New York regulators stopped a natural gas pipeline, saying it failed to meet standards to protect streams, wetlands and other water resources. Under Section 401 of the Clean Water Act, companies must get certification from the state before moving ahead with an energy project. One of Trump's planned executive orders calls for the Environmental Protection Agency to consult with states, tribes and others before issuing new guidance and rules for states on how to comply with the law. Environmental groups described Trump's order as an effort to short-circuit a state's ability to review complicated projects, putting at risk a state's ability to protect drinking water supplies and wildlife." The Trump Administration's proposal would trample on state authority to protect waters within their own borders," said Jim Murphy, senior counsel for the National Wildlife Federation. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPThe private Center for Biological Diversity said Wednesday's actions would mark the fourth time Trump has used executive orders to streamline permits for fossil-fuel infrastructure." Trump's developing an addiction to executive orders that rubberstamp these climate-killing projects," said Brett Hartl, government affairs director at the center. The second executive order Trump signed on Wednesday streamlines the process for energy infrastructure that crosses international borders. Currently, the secretary of state has the authority to issue permits for cross-border infrastructure such as pipelines. The executive order clarifies that the president will make the decision on whether to issue such permits. The move follows Trump's decision last month to issue a new presidential permit for the long-stalled Keystone XL oil pipeline — two years after he first approved it and more than a decade after it was first proposed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
570	rt	questionable_source	2018-10-24	He has repeatedly said the forests are too dense and need to be thinned – a problem the logging industry would be happy to help with.	About half (48 percent) of California's land is currently experiencing drought conditions, which – combined with high temperatures and strong winds – are largely to blame for the record-setting rash of fires in the state, according to state fire chiefs.	Trump, a proud climate change skeptic, attributes the fires to "lousy management."	As for the water, it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt, an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents.	It's not a good week for the Delta smelt.		Trump threatens to cut federal aid to California over 'lousy management' of water & wildfires US President Donald Trump is taking California to task for the management of its forests and dams, blaming red tape for the devastating forest fires and drought plaguing the bluest of blue states, and threatening to withhold aid. Speaking at a White House address on Tuesday, Trump was shocked that Californians weren't using the water contained by their dams to put out the fires and irrigate their fields. "We have so much water they could actually water some of it," he said in disbelief. About half (48 percent) of California's land is currently experiencing drought conditions, which – combined with high temperatures and strong winds – are largely to blame for the record-setting rash of fires in the state, according to state fire chiefs. Trump, a proud climate change skeptic, attributes the fires to "lousy management." He has repeatedly said the forests are too dense and need to be thinned – a problem the logging industry would be happy to help with. As for the water, it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt, an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents. Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians, he says. Trump threatened to withhold future federal aid if California does not "get on the ball," implying that the state's environmental woes were its own fault. It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric, as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory. Last week, Trump signed a memo geared toward improving "the reliable supply and delivery of water in California, Oregon, and Washington" by streamlining environmental review and approval for water infrastructure projects. It's not a good week for the Delta smelt. Trump announced yesterday he will nominate Aurelia Skipwith, a former Monsanto lawyer, as director of the Fish and Wildlife Service. While she has worked for the department since 2013, environmentalists accuse her of gutting protections for migratory birds and endangered species.	False
705	CNN	left_bias	2017-04-11	"What won't solve the problem is putting our heads in the Florida sand while streets and basements flood around us," she said in a statement.	The question is, what are we going to do about it and at what cost?"	For many coastal communities, the problems have already begun.	Climate change is not just a threat to our planet's future - it's a threat to our communities today.	Christina DeConcini, director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute, said the US needs a "fact-based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure, homes and businesses.	"Sea level rise and coastal flooding driven by climate change pose real, significant risks to our residents and should not be politicized,'' he said. <sep> The agency outlined how sea levels could rise by at least four to five feet by century's end, engulfing numerous coastal communities or making flooding so frequent as to render them uninhabitable. <sep> There are a number of factors that contribute to that, including human activity. <sep> Other cities like Norfolk, Virginia, and Charleston, South Carolina that are at risk of extreme flooding, are also trying to deal with the issue. <sep> "And while there are still some who continue to deny climate change is real, South Florida offers proof that it is real and it's an issue we're going to be grappling with for decades to come." <sep> Already, Hollywood experiences more incidents of tidal flooding. <sep> Today we sit at ground zero of the impacts of climate change in the US," Florida Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson said. <sep> 	Trump denies climate change, but could one day be its victim Not that surprising, except this was a Senate committee field hearing challenging the position shared by President Donald Trump and many Republicans in Congress that climate change isn't real. The site of the hearing -- just four miles from Trump's weekend getaway in Palm Beach -- was clearly intended to send a signal: Much of Florida's coastline could one day be underwater, including some of the President's own prized properties." Today we sit at ground zero of the impacts of climate change in the US," Florida Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson said. "And while there are still some who continue to deny climate change is real, South Florida offers proof that it is real and it's an issue we're going to be grappling with for decades to come." Data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration show that Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club and his condominiums in Hollywood, Florida, would be partially submerged if sea level rose three feet by the end of the century. Already, Hollywood experiences more incidents of tidal flooding. NOAA itself, in a recent report, raised the specter of millions of coastal residents in the United States -- especially along the low-lying East Coast -- being displaced by coastal flooding. The agency outlined how sea levels could rise by at least four to five feet by century's end, engulfing numerous coastal communities or making flooding so frequent as to render them uninhabitable. "What we thought was extremely rare, large floods invading coastal cities on a regular basis, is becoming more and more probable," said William Sweet, an oceanographer at NOAA and the report's lead author. "The gap between our infrastructure and the global sea level is narrowing," A recent study published in Nature concluded that with the acceleration of ice melt in Antarctica, sea levels could rise to six feet by 2100. At that point, Trump's golf course at Doral, Florida, and several properties at Sunny Isles Beach would also be under water. The fact that Trump's own properties are vulnerable to the impact of climate change is paradoxical, given that the EPA is poised to undo President Barack Obama's plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants. In a now infamous 2012 tweet, Trump claimed that "global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing non-competitive." The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 6, 2012 The Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee hearing was conducted by Nelson, the panel's ranking member, but it was authorized by Republican Sen. John Thune of South Dakota, the committee's chairman, who has acknowledged human activity is responsible for climate change. Climate change is not just a threat to our planet's future - it's a threat to our communities today. Thanks @SenBillNelson for this hearing. pic. twitter. com/ixO6VhRhrO — Rep. Ted Deutch (@RepTedDeutch) April 10, 2017 Thune told Fox News anchor Chris Wallace in a 2014 interview, for example, "Well, look, climate change is occurring, it's always occurring, Chris. There are a number of factors that contribute to that, including human activity. The question is, what are we going to do about it and at what cost?" Trump has proposed slashing the EPA budget by a third and eliminating many climate-change programs entirely. But, when it comes to his own property in Ireland, a golf course and resort in the small town of Doonbeg, the President took a more proactive approach. He proposed to build a wall to fight coastal erosion by the course's sand dunes, which eroded after heavy storms in 2014. After several attempts to gain approval, the President refiled an application in December 2016 and is still waiting to get an authorization from the local county council. For many coastal communities, the problems have already begun. Flooding and high winds are more frequent, said Sweet, the NOAA oceanographer. Hurricane Sandy broke through the sea walls of several homes near Mar-a-Lago in 2012, and Palm Beach County had to restore more than 20 acres of eroded seashore. Miami, meanwhile, is investing millions of dollars to raise the level of its properties, its roads and water systems as protection against flooding. Other cities like Norfolk, Virginia, and Charleston, South Carolina that are at risk of extreme flooding, are also trying to deal with the issue. Christina DeConcini, director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute, said the US needs a "fact-based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure, homes and businesses. "What won't solve the problem is putting our heads in the Florida sand while streets and basements flood around us," she said in a statement. Palm Beach County Commissioner Steven Abrams downplayed the political aspects of the Senate committee hearing in a statement Friday. "Sea level rise and coastal flooding driven by climate change pose real, significant risks to our residents and should not be politicized,'' he said.	False
674	Talking Points Memo	left_bias	2017-10-11	It includes increased public reporting of pipeline issues such as repairs, and implementation of a spill response plan — including equipment staging — at Lake Oahe.	The judge said the Corps also didn't adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community — a concept known as environmental justice.	"This, then, is not a case in which the agency must redo its analysis from the ground up."	isks presented to this tenfold increase in population must, of course, be considered," the judge said.	Tribal attorneys argued that ETP had overstated the potential effects of a shutdown, and Boasberg acknowledged "some cause for skepticism" regarding ETP's predictions.	The tribe is among four that have challenged the pipeline in court over environmental fears that ETP says are unfounded. <sep> He noted that the tribe's water intake has been moved about 50 miles (80 kilometers) downstream since pipeline construction began, and said an alternative river crossing near Bismarck that had been studied and rejected would pass much closer to a drinking water intake that serve tens of thousands more people." <sep> Boasberg in June said the Corps didn't adequately consider how an oil spill under the Lake Oahe reservoir on the Missouri River in the Dakotas might affect the Standing Rock Sioux. <sep> That aims to ensure development projects aren't built in areas where minority populations might not have the resources to defend their rights. <sep> But if the agency had gone an additional 88 yards (80 meters) — about the length of a football field — the study would have included the Standing Rock Reservation. <sep> Boasberg in his ruling Wednesday said that issue was "a closer call" than the others, but that it still did not justify shutting down the pipeline. <sep> 	Judge Rules Dakota Access Pipeline To Continue Operating Amid Impact Study BISMARCK, N.D. (AP) — A federal judge ruled Wednesday that the Dakota Access oil pipeline can continue operating while a study is completed to assess its environmental impact on an American Indian tribe.U.S. District Judge James Boasberg's decision will come as a blow to the Standing Rock Sioux, who have argued that an oil spill from the pipeline under Lake Oahe — from which the tribe draws its water — could have a detrimental effect on the tribal community." oday's decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern: Other people get all the profits, and the tribes get all the risk and harm," said Jan Hasselman, an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline. Boasberg found that it is likely the Army Corps of Engineers will be able to justify previous decisions made while permitting the pipeline." he Corps must simply connect the dots," he said. "This, then, is not a case in which the agency must redo its analysis from the ground up." Boasberg also acknowledged that shutting down the pipeline would disrupt the energy industry, but said it wasn't a major factor in his decision. The $3.8 billion pipeline built by Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners has been operating since June 1, moving oil from North Dakota through South Dakota and Iowa to a distribution point in Illinois. From there it can be shipped to the Gulf Coast and potentially lucrative markets abroad. It has the capacity to move half of the oil produced daily in North Dakota, the nation's second-leading producer behind Texas. Energy industry officials applauded Boasberg's ruling, with North Dakota Petroleum Council President Ron Ness calling the pipeline "a critical part of American energy infrastructure." The Justice Department declined comment on behalf of the Corps. President Donald Trump had pushed for the pipeline's completion, and the Corps dropped a plan to conduct more environmental study after he took office. Boasberg ruled on June 14 that the Corps largely complied with environmental law, but he ordered the agency to reconsider certain areas of its analysis, and took arguments on whether to shut down the 1,200-mile (1,930-kilometer) pipeline while the work is done. Boasberg in June said the Corps didn't adequately consider how an oil spill under the Lake Oahe reservoir on the Missouri River in the Dakotas might affect the Standing Rock Sioux. The tribe is among four that have challenged the pipeline in court over environmental fears that ETP says are unfounded. The judge said the Corps also didn't adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community — a concept known as environmental justice. That aims to ensure development projects aren't built in areas where minority populations might not have the resources to defend their rights. In its analysis of the Missouri River crossing, the Corps studied the mostly white demographics in a half-mile (0.8-kilometer) radius, which the agency maintains is standard. But if the agency had gone an additional 88 yards (80 meters) — about the length of a football field — the study would have included the Standing Rock Reservation. Boasberg in his ruling Wednesday said that issue was "a closer call" than the others, but that it still did not justify shutting down the pipeline. He noted that the tribe's water intake has been moved about 50 miles (80 kilometers) downstream since pipeline construction began, and said an alternative river crossing near Bismarck that had been studied and rejected would pass much closer to a drinking water intake that serve tens of thousands more people." isks presented to this tenfold increase in population must, of course, be considered," the judge said. Corps attorneys said the agency expects to be able by next spring to substantiate its earlier determination that the pipeline poses no significant environmental threats. ETP maintained that a shutdown would cost it $90 million monthly and significantly disrupt the broader energy industry as well as state and local tax revenue. The North Dakota Pipeline Authority this week said that the Dakota Access pipeline boosted the state's tax revenues by about $19 million in its first three months of operation. Tribal attorneys argued that ETP had overstated the potential effects of a shutdown, and Boasberg acknowledged "some cause for skepticism" regarding ETP's predictions. Tribal attorneys also said a shutdown would create incentive for the Corps to take the review seriously. The tribes had proposed a fallback plan if Boasberg decided against a shutdown. It includes increased public reporting of pipeline issues such as repairs, and implementation of a spill response plan — including equipment staging — at Lake Oahe. Boasberg said he will hear arguments on the matter. He scheduled a status conference for Oct. 18.	True
203	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-11-18	Over the past decade, previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines.	But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	Far-right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	They say the president favours development over conservation.• Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?Mr Bolsonaro - who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed - has not commented on the latest data.	As the largest rainforest in the world, the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming.		Brazil's Amazon deforestation highest since 2008, space agency says Deforestation of Brazil's Amazon rainforest increased by 29.5% in 12 months, the highest rate since 2008, the country's space agency reports. The rainforest lost 9,762 sq km (3,769 sq miles) of its vegetation between August 2018 and July 2019, Inpe says. Far-right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe. Scientists say the Amazon has suffered losses at an accelerated rate since Mr Bolsonaro took office in January. They say the president favours development over conservation.• Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?Mr Bolsonaro - who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed - has not commented on the latest data. As the largest rainforest in the world, the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming. Over the past decade, previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines. But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	False
847	RT	questionable_source	2017-08-09	The lawsuits demands more than $1.4 billion to clean up the polluted wells, install treatment equipment and replace wells that have been decommissioned for being polluted with chromium 6."	ater districts are constantly balancing risks against cost," he said, adding, "They're committed to delivering water that is as free as possible of contaminants, but doing so is expensive."	T]hey knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater, pollute drinking supplies, render drinking water unusuable and unsafe, and threaten the public health and welfare," stated the complaint, which claims an underground storage tank "likely held" the chemical.	acramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply," the water district's lawsuit, filed in federal court in Sacramento says, as part of its claim seeking $1.1 billion in damages.	C]ontaminated with plating wastes, solvents, acids, waste oils, paint thinners, strippers and sludges and other hazardous compounds," the lawsuits stated.	Plaintiffs claim heavy metals used by aircraft maintenance crews at the old McClellan Air Force Base have contaminated over 300 sites. <sep> Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984, McClellan had burn and burial pits, trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals." <sep> 	California districts sue US govt for $1.4bn over water contamination from military base Two water districts in Sacramento, California are suing the US government for nearly one and a half billion dollars for groundwater cleanup. Plaintiffs claim heavy metals used by aircraft maintenance crews at the old McClellan Air Force Base have contaminated over 300 sites. The lawsuits named the US Air Force and 10 major firms involved in supplying chromium products and chemicals to the base, and was filed by the Sacramento Suburban Water District and the Rio Linda Elverta Community Water District, according to the Sacramento Bee. At contention is whether the cancer-causing chemical hexavalent chromium, or chromium 6, came from the base, which was designated a federal Superfund site in 1987 for 326 contaminated sites identified for cleanup." T]hey knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater, pollute drinking supplies, render drinking water unusuable and unsafe, and threaten the public health and welfare," stated the complaint, which claims an underground storage tank "likely held" the chemical. The lawsuits demands more than $1.4 billion to clean up the polluted wells, install treatment equipment and replace wells that have been decommissioned for being polluted with chromium 6." acramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply," the water district's lawsuit, filed in federal court in Sacramento says, as part of its claim seeking $1.1 billion in damages. Rio Linda Elverta's claim seeks more than $289 million in damages." hrome 6 is a highly toxic compound and it shouldn't be in the water," Victor Sher, a San Francisco environmental attorney representing the plaintiffs, said Tuesday." ater districts are constantly balancing risks against cost," he said, adding, "They're committed to delivering water that is as free as possible of contaminants, but doing so is expensive." Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984, McClellan had burn and burial pits, trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals." C]ontaminated with plating wastes, solvents, acids, waste oils, paint thinners, strippers and sludges and other hazardous compounds," the lawsuits stated. Plaintiffs argue that the chemicals have been found in groundwater under the base as high as 840 parts per billion, six times higher than levels that decrease away from the air base. The state set a maximum concentration for chromium 6 as 10 parts per billion in 2014. The Air Force denied Rio Linda Elverta's claim in a May 9 letter before the district sued in federal court on June 30. The Air Force had consistently denied responsibility for polluting the groundwater around the base, which operated from 1936 through 2001, before being converted to a business park. In addition to the Air Force, the water district lawsuits name 10 firms they say were associated with providing chemicals to the base: Elementis Chromium Inc., Occidental Chemical Corp., Honeywell Inc., BASF Corp., PPG Inc., E.I. Du Pont De Nemours and Co., Luxfer Holdings PLC, Sigma-Aldrich Corp. and Dow Chemical Co. Officials with Sacramento Suburban, which serves 175,000 customers just east of the old base, and Rio Linda Elverta, which serves about 15,000 customers to the west of the base, say the water they are currently providing is safe.A 2016 Harvard study of some 36,000 EPA water samples taken from 2013 to 2015 at industrial sites, military fire training locations, airports and wastewater treatments plants contained levels of perfluoroalkyl substances (PFASs), or perfluorinated chemicals, that go beyond what is considered safe by the federal government. Researchers determined that drinking water for 6 million in the US is at or beyond the EPA safety threshold for PFAS levels. Xindi Hu, the study's lead author, warned that "the actual number of people exposed may be even higher than our study found, because government data for levels of these compounds in drinking water is lacking for almost a third of the U.S. population—about 100 million people."	True
593	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-13	UWAG argues the regulation will "cause negative impacts on jobs due to the excessive costs of compliance – which were grossly underestimated by EPA – and regulatory burdens forcing plant closures."	Aside from arguing EPA improperly withheld data on how they came up with the rule, plaintiffs argued the agency didn't perform proper testing to see if requiring coal plants to install new equipment would meet federal pollution guidelines.	It's the latest move by the Trump administration to ease the regulatory burden on the coal industry.	have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule," Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA)."	rump's attempt to halt these clean water protections for mercury, lead, and arsenic from coal power plants is dangerous and irresponsible," said Mary Anne Hitt, the director of the Sierra Club's "Beyond Coal" campaign.		EPA Considers Repealing Another Obama-Era Coal Regulation Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt told business advocates the agency will reconsider a rule utilities worry could force more coal-fired power plants to close."  have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule," Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA)." he EPA is acting promptly to issue an administrative stay of the compliance dates in the rule that have not yet passed pending judicial review," Pruitt wrote regarding an EPA regulation on liquid waste from coal plants. Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group (UWAG), urging the Trump administration to rescind its "Effluent Limitations Guidelines" for coal-fired power plants. UWAG argues the regulation will "cause negative impacts on jobs due to the excessive costs of compliance – which were grossly underestimated by EPA – and regulatory burdens forcing plant closures." UWAG said EPA underestimated the rule's costs and withheld records about the rulemaking from utilities who would have to comply with the rule, which the agency estimates could cost up to $2.5 billion a year." o an unprecedented extent, the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule, UWAG argued, adding that included "pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment." The EPA said in legal filings it withheld records to protect confidential business information. Pruitt said EPA would reconsider the ELG rule based on UWAG's concerns. It's the latest move by the Trump administration to ease the regulatory burden on the coal industry. President Donald Trump promised to lessen regulations on coal mines to put miners back to work. Trump has already signed executive orders to rescind EPA and Interior Department regulations on coal production and power generation. Most recently, Trump ordered the EPA to review the Clean Power Plan, which limits carbon dioxide emissions from new and existing power plants. That rule was also expected to force more coal plants to prematurely shut down. Environmentalists were, obviously, outraged by Pruitt's decision." rump's attempt to halt these clean water protections for mercury, lead, and arsenic from coal power plants is dangerous and irresponsible," said Mary Anne Hitt, the director of the Sierra Club's "Beyond Coal" campaign. The Obama administration finalized the ELG rule in 2015 and it went into effect in January 2016. The rule requires coal plants to install new equipment to curb pollution from wastewater streams. Utilities, including UWAG, took EPA to court to have the rule overturned. UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act. Aside from arguing EPA improperly withheld data on how they came up with the rule, plaintiffs argued the agency didn't perform proper testing to see if requiring coal plants to install new equipment would meet federal pollution guidelines. Environmentalists fought to keep the rule in place, and Pruitt can expect legal challenges if EPA tries to repeal the ELG rule." rump claimed he wanted EPA to go 'back to basics' and focus on clean air and water in his Administration, but one of the first actions by his EPA Administrator is an attempt to gut an important water pollution safeguard," Hitt said. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	True
147	motherjones	left_bias	2019-06-27	"This is something that's happening now and needs to be addressed now."	Climate change and fossil fuels have already disturbed the daily lives of Floridians.	Sea level rise and warming temperatures threaten cities like Miami.	Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because "climate change is an issue that affects every other issue: agriculture, the economy, including tourism."	Kim Ross, ReThink Energy Florida leader, resident witnessed people in her community in Tallahassee feeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster, which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems."		Activists Outside the 2020 Debate Are Demanding That Climate Change Take Center Stage Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off, dozens of local activists in Miami, Florida held an "Underwater Climate Rally," calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate. A coalition of local environmental groups organized the march to the Arsht Center in Miami, where this round of debates is being held, with marchers sporting signs calling for a specific climate change debate and pushing for the Green New Deal. Melissa Baldwin, co-organizer of Miami Climate Month, which organized the rally, says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami, they wanted to "put a spotlight on climate change, because you can't come to Miami without talking about climate change." Climate change and fossil fuels have already disturbed the daily lives of Floridians. Sea level rise and warming temperatures threaten cities like Miami. Kim Ross, ReThink Energy Florida leader, resident witnessed people in her community in Tallahassee feeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster, which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems." his isn't something in the future," Ross says. "This is something that's happening now and needs to be addressed now." At the first 2020 Democratic debate on Wednesday night, Democrats spent less than 10 minutes talking about climate change. Though not an extensive conversation, that was still more time spent talking about climate change than in all of three debates combined between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in 2016. Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because "climate change is an issue that affects every other issue: agriculture, the economy, including tourism." She recalls a friend saying, "Who wants to go to Disney when it's 105 degrees outside?"	False
693	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-09-08	Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the scientific body the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.	The amendment passed even though the 2018 budget proposal that Trump, a Republican, introduced earlier this year eliminated support of any mechanism to finance climate change projects in developing countries and organizations.	The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels, which have been linked to global warming.	Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon, the amendment's author, said on Twitter on Thursday: "Despite @RealDonaldTrump's dangerous #ParisAgreement decision & unwillingness to act, we can & will fight back to combat #climatedisruption."	In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re-engage in the global Paris climate agreement.		Defying Trump, Senate panel approves funding for U.N. climate body WASHINGTON (Reuters) – The U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee passed a spending bill on Thursday evening that includes $10 million to help fund the United Nations' climate change body that oversees the Paris Climate Agreement, despite President Donald Trump's decision to stop funding it. The 30-member Senate panel, which allocates federal funds to various government agencies and organizations, approved a $51 billion spending bill for the State Department and foreign operations, which included an amendment to continue funding the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the scientific body the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The amendment passed even though the 2018 budget proposal that Trump, a Republican, introduced earlier this year eliminated support of any mechanism to finance climate change projects in developing countries and organizations. The United States is still a party to the 1992 UNFCCC, which oversees the Paris agreement, although Trump announced in June that he would withdraw the nation from the global climate pact and cease funding the Green Climate Fund, which supports clean energy and climate adaptation projects in vulnerable countries. The United States has usually contributed to around 20 percent of the UNFCCC budget. Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon, the amendment's author, said on Twitter on Thursday: "Despite @RealDonaldTrump's dangerous #ParisAgreement decision & unwillingness to act, we can & will fight back to combat #climatedisruption." The amendment passed 16-14. Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee voted in favor, as did all committee Democrats except for West Virginia's Joe Manchin. Although the United States announced it would no longer be a party to the Paris Climate Agreement, a pact that nearly 200 countries approved in 2015 to combat global warming, it has said it will continue to observe the ongoing negotiations. In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re-engage in the global Paris climate agreement. The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels, which have been linked to global warming. [L1N1KU0UP]	True
370	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-09-02	Combined with drought, insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate, those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality," the op-ed continues.	California's restrictions on active forest management have contributed to the poor and worsening conditions of the forests, allowing them to grow uninhibited while suppressing fires that would normally naturally control the forests' growth."	"But there's been a change in fire behavior over the last century, as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes.	The LA Times Inadvertently Admits Trump Is Right About What's Causing California's Massive Wildfires Adopting more active forest management policies such as increased thinning of trees and conducting controlled burns will help mitigate damage from future wildfires, the Los Angeles Times editorial board writes.	ire is not necessarily bad for forests.	This has to do with active forest management." <sep> 	The LA Times Inadvertently Admits Trump Is Right About What's Causing California's Massive Wildfires Adopting more active forest management policies such as increased thinning of trees and conducting controlled burns will help mitigate damage from future wildfires, the Los Angeles Times editorial board writes. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke began advocating similar policy prescriptions earlier in 2018 after President Donald Trump blamed California's "bad environmental laws" for creating a wildfire-prone environment. (RELATED: Trump Administration Is Taking Its Fight Against 'Bad Environmental Laws' Straight To California)California forests have grown drier and less healthy from overcrowded trees, infestations of bark beetles and the effects of climate change, the LA Times writes. California's restrictions on active forest management have contributed to the poor and worsening conditions of the forests, allowing them to grow uninhibited while suppressing fires that would normally naturally control the forests' growth." ire is not necessarily bad for forests. California used to burn with regularity, and low-intensity fires are vital in some ecosystems to clear excess brush and small trees from the landscape," the editorial board writes. "But there's been a change in fire behavior over the last century, as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes. Decades of fire suppression have allowed forests to grow dense with trees." Combined with drought, insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate, those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality," the op-ed continues. California's environmental laws entered the national spotlight in early August when Trump blamed them for the severity of the wildfires that were ravaging the state. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke was soon at the front of the administration's push for California to begin adopting more active land management policies. Zinke traveled to California to see the damage from the fires and meet with local officials and firefighters Aug. 13. Zinke ramped up calls for greater forest thinning while also dismissing the idea that climate change is playing a significant factor in the wildfires' intensity. (RELATED: Ryan Zinke Shifts The Wildfire Debate From Global Warming To Anti-Logging 'Environmental Terrorists')"I've heard the climate change argument back and forth," Zinke told Sacramento-based KCRA. "This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management." California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown partnered with state lawmakers to introduce changes to the state's policies. The bill would grant $1 billion toward forest thinning and ease regulations on cutting trees on private property, according to the LA Times.	True
95	talkingpointsmemo	left_bias	2019-02-07	The resolution does not include a price tag, but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars.	The Democrats are likely to meet resistance to their proposal in Congress, especially in the Republican-controlled Senate.	While setting lofty goals, the plan does not explicitly call for eliminating the use of fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas, a nod to pragmatism that may disappoint some of Ocasio-Cortez's strongest supporters.	The resolution marks the first time Ocasio-Cortez and other lawmakers have attached legislative language onto the Green New Deal, a concept that until now has been largely undefined other than as a call for urgent action to head off catastrophic climate change and create jobs.	She calls for a "World War II-scale mobilization" that includes high-quality education and health care, clean air and water and safe, affordable housing.		Democrats Mobilize On Green New Deal WASHINGTON (AP) — Democrats including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York are calling for a Green New Deal intended to transform the U.S. economy to combat climate change and create thousands of jobs in renewable energy. The freshman lawmaker and veteran Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts are teaming up on the plan, which aims to eliminate the U.S. carbon footprint by 2030.A joint resolution drafted by Ocasio-Cortez and Markey sets a goal to meet "100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources," including dramatic increases in wind and solar power.A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday, the day they introduce the resolution. While setting lofty goals, the plan does not explicitly call for eliminating the use of fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas, a nod to pragmatism that may disappoint some of Ocasio-Cortez's strongest supporters. Even so, their Green New Deal goes far beyond the Clean Power Plan proposed by President Barack Obama. President Donald Trump has scrapped Obama's plan, which imposed emissions limits on coal-fired power plants, as a job-killer. The Democrats are likely to meet resistance to their proposal in Congress, especially in the Republican-controlled Senate. Trump, who has expressed doubts about climate change, also is likely to oppose it. The resolution marks the first time Ocasio-Cortez and other lawmakers have attached legislative language onto the Green New Deal, a concept that until now has been largely undefined other than as a call for urgent action to head off catastrophic climate change and create jobs. Several Democratic presidential hopefuls have embraced the idea of a Green New Deal without saying exactly what it means. Ocasio-Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create "unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security." She calls for a "World War II-scale mobilization" that includes high-quality education and health care, clean air and water and safe, affordable housing. Answering critics who call the plan unrealistic, Ocasio-Cortez says that when President John F. Kennedy wanted to go to the moon by the end of the 1960s, "people said it was impossible." She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal, Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know-how and capability. While focusing on renewable energy, Ocasio-Cortez said the plan would include existing nuclear power plants but block new nuclear plants. Nuclear power does not emit greenhouse gases, which contribute to global warming. The resolution does not include a price tag, but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars. They denounced the plan at House hearings on climate change on Wednesday. The Green New Deal would be paid for "the same way we paid for the original New Deal, World War II, the bank bailouts, tax cuts for the rich and decades of war — with public money appropriated by Congress," Ocasio-Cortez said. Government can take an equity stake in Green New Deal projects "so the public gets a return on its investment," she said.	True
869	RT	questionable_source	2017-08-08	We're up against the wire and nobody — no politician, no agency, no industry — is stepping up to resolve the climate crisis," Mike, one of the protesters locked to a flower pot, said in a statement.	However, the group said that Inslee has failed to craft an emissions reduction strategy and the state "continues to move towards a dizzying array of new fossil fuel developments."	Our community and our planet are under attack, yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	"It's time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time."	"The combination of federal preemption and federal inaction is unacceptable."	While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude-by-rail, they have taken few steps toward increasing safety," Inslee wrote in an op-ed for the Columbian last year. <sep> Inslee urged Congress and the US Department of Transportation to implement even tougher regulations, including lower speed limits for high-hazard flammable trains and to use safer cars that are "strong enough to protect volatile contents from the heat of a fire or the impact of a collision." <sep> In 2014, the state of Washington passed legislation to increase track and hazardous material inspections, require oil spill contingency plans, increase funding for prevention and cleanup of oil spills, and improve safety at crossings along oil train routes. <sep> 	2 protesters arrested after laying down on tracks to block oil train in Washington Protesters were arrested in Washington after blocking an oil train by erecting a "pop-up garden of sunflowers" and lying down on the train tracks. The group was protesting a proposed oil terminal and all other fossil fuel infrastructure in the state. Two people were arrested Monday during a protest in downtown Vancouver, Washington held by the activist group Shut Down Fossil Fuels. Protesters locked their arms into large sunflower pots and laid down on train tracks, calling on Washington Governor Jay Inslee (D) to reject the proposed Vancouver Tesoro Savage Oil Terminal and "all other proposed fossil fuel infrastructure in the State of Washington," the group said in a press release. The protesters were blocking a BNSF train carrying Bakken Crude Oil, a highly volatile oil that caused a train to explode in Mosier, Oregon last June. Jessie Braverman, the group's media liaison, told RT that around 25 people showed up at the train tracks to address climate change, and let the governor know that "if he isn't going to stop the terminal than we will." Our community and our planet are under attack, yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate. We were here on the tracks a year after the Mosier oil train derailment and nothing has changed," Braverman said in a statement. "The trains are still coming and new fossil fuel projects are still being proposed; we're in the midst of a worldwide climate emergency and we're fighting back." Braverman confirmed that two people were arrested during the protest and they are still being held in jail. She also said that there had been "no word" from the governor, whom they had been attempting to contact throughout the day. According to the Associated Press, the tracks were cleared after an hour. In 2014, the state of Washington passed legislation to increase track and hazardous material inspections, require oil spill contingency plans, increase funding for prevention and cleanup of oil spills, and improve safety at crossings along oil train routes. However, Inslee said that "states are limited in what we can do" in creating regulations for interstate railroads." ailroads engage in interstate commerce, which means the buck stops with the federal government. While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude-by-rail, they have taken few steps toward increasing safety," Inslee wrote in an op-ed for the Columbian last year. "The combination of federal preemption and federal inaction is unacceptable." Inslee urged Congress and the US Department of Transportation to implement even tougher regulations, including lower speed limits for high-hazard flammable trains and to use safer cars that are "strong enough to protect volatile contents from the heat of a fire or the impact of a collision." However, the group said that Inslee has failed to craft an emissions reduction strategy and the state "continues to move towards a dizzying array of new fossil fuel developments." If I can stop an oil train, Governor Jay Inslee can stop an oil terminal," Chris, one of the protesters, said in a statement. Ultimately, Shut Down Fossil Fuels is calling for "an end to oil trains, oil terminals, and all fossil fuels." It's now or never. We're up against the wire and nobody — no politician, no agency, no industry — is stepping up to resolve the climate crisis," Mike, one of the protesters locked to a flower pot, said in a statement. "It's time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time." Sophie Scholl, another media liaison for the group, told RT that there has been a second blockade of a train up north following the arrests in downtown Vancouver.	True
405	politicususa	left_bias	2018-11-23	Previous research, including from U.S. government scientists, has also concluded that climate change could have severe economic consequences, including damage to infrastructure, water supplies and agriculture.	Severe weather and other impacts also increase the risk of disease transmission, decrease air quality, and can increase mental health problems, among other effects.	It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor, broadly undermine human health, damage infrastructure, limit the availability of water, alter coastlines, and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production.	ith continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century – more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many U.S. states," according to the report.	While it said that many of the impacts of climate change – including more frequent and more powerful storms, droughts and flooding – are already underway, the projections of further damage could change if greenhouse gas emissions are sharply curbed: "Future risks from climate change depend primarily on decisions made today," it said.	his report makes it clear that climate change is not some problem in the distant future. <sep> 	U.S. report says climate change will batter economy, in clash with Trump (Reuters) – Climate change will cost the U.S. economy hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century, damaging everything from human health to infrastructure and agricultural production, according to a government report issued on Friday. The Congressionally-mandated report, written with the help of more than a dozen U.S. government agencies and departments, outlined the projected impacts of global warming in every corner of American society, in a dire warning at odds with the Trump administration's pro-fossil fuels agenda." ith continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century – more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many U.S. states," according to the report. It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor, broadly undermine human health, damage infrastructure, limit the availability of water, alter coastlines, and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production. While it said that many of the impacts of climate change – including more frequent and more powerful storms, droughts and flooding – are already underway, the projections of further damage could change if greenhouse gas emissions are sharply curbed: "Future risks from climate change depend primarily on decisions made today," it said. The report, the Fourth National Climate Assessment Volume II, supplements a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming, and which warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet. The studies clash with policy under President Donald Trump, who has been rolling back Obama-era environmental and climate protections to maximize production of domestic fossil fuels, including crude oil, already the highest in the world, above Saudi Arabia and Russia. Trump last year announced his intention to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris Deal agreed by nearly 200 nations to combat climate change, arguing the accord would hurt the U.S. economy and provide little tangible environmental benefit. Trump and several members of his cabinet have also repeatedly cast doubt on the science of climate change, arguing the causes and impacts are not yet settled. White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Environmental groups said the report reinforced their calls for the United States to take action on climate change." his report makes it clear that climate change is not some problem in the distant future. It's happening right now in every part of the country," said Brenda Ekwurzel, the director of climate science at the Union of Concerned Scientists and one of the report's authors. Previous research, including from U.S. government scientists, has also concluded that climate change could have severe economic consequences, including damage to infrastructure, water supplies and agriculture. Severe weather and other impacts also increase the risk of disease transmission, decrease air quality, and can increase mental health problems, among other effects. Thirteen government departments and agencies, from the Agriculture Department to NASA, were part of the committee that compiled the new report. The entire report can be viewed at	True
72	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-02-07	The question then becomes: How do you eliminate emissions from cows, sheep and other animals?Certainly, environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of people's diets in the name of the climate, but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health.	'Green New Deal' Looks To Tackle The Scourge Of Cow Flatulence Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's newly-released "Green New Deal" resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal, but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions.	The resolution calls for a World War II-style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations.	Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals.	Republican lawmakers worried the Obama-era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers.		'Green New Deal' Looks To Tackle The Scourge Of Cow Flatulence Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's newly-released "Green New Deal" resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal, but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions. The resolution calls for a World War II-style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations. If that's the case, that means any subsequent "Green New Deal" legislation would have to deal with a major source of methane emissions — cow flatulence. Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming. Enteric fermentation, the digestive process in cows and other ruminant animals, is the largest source of U.S. methane emissions, according to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) data. EPA says "cattle account for the majority of [methane] emissions in the United States for this source category," referring to emissions from enteric fermentation. (RELATED: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez: 'Green New Deal Is About Social Justice')Being a non-binding resolution, the "Green New Deal" doesn't offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated. The question then becomes: How do you eliminate emissions from cows, sheep and other animals?Certainly, environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of people's diets in the name of the climate, but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health. Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals. The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others. The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014, which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations. Republican lawmakers worried the Obama-era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers. Methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, but makes up a much smaller slice of America's emissions profile. Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane, which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
444	vox	left_bias	2018-03-16	"Climate change" isn't part of it.	This is a glaring omission from an agency that deals with anticipating and responding to weather extremes driven in part by a changing climate.	FEMA did signal that it wants to invest more in "pre-disaster mitigation," which may or may not include climate change.	The net result is that the Trump administration is doing little to either mitigate or adapt to rising temperatures.	FEMA is preparing for the future.	But it wasn't so coy in its previous 2014-2018 strategic plan, which noted that the agency "will also ensure that future risks, including those influenced by climate change, are effectively integrated into the Agency's risk assessment resources and processes." <sep> FEMA has, and will continue to, respond to climate change-influenced disasters. <sep> isaster costs are expected to continue to increase due to rising natural hazard risk, decaying critical infrastructure, and economic pressures that limit investments in risk resilience," according to the document. <sep> The Federal Emergency Management Agency, which was on the front lines of many of these calamities, had to go back to Congress last September to ask for billions more dollars to handle the gargantuan relief efforts. <sep> The recent personnel shake-up across the federal government doesn't bode well for the fight against climate change either. <sep> Dropping climate change from FEMA's strategic plan is just the latest part of the Trump administration's long pattern of erasing climate change as a public policy issue across the federal government. <sep> It seems FEMA doesn't want to build on this history of climate disasters. <sep> 	FEMA is preparing for the future. "Climate change" isn't part of it. The United States is still reeling from last year's megadisasters. Puerto Rico lingers in the longest blackout in US history after Hurricane Maria tore through the island, and the scorched earth left behind from record-breaking fires in California is now causing floods and mudslides. The Federal Emergency Management Agency, which was on the front lines of many of these calamities, had to go back to Congress last September to ask for billions more dollars to handle the gargantuan relief efforts. With some of the dust settled, it's clear that the events in 2017 fit the pattern of extreme weather we expect as average global temperatures go up, with strong climate change signals emerging in fires and rainfall. FEMA has, and will continue to, respond to climate change-influenced disasters. But the agency's new strategic plan for 2018-2022, released Thursday, doesn't mention climate change or global warming at all. That's despite the fact that the 38-page document projects more frequent and more expensive disasters. This is a glaring omission from an agency that deals with anticipating and responding to weather extremes driven in part by a changing climate. The damages from the hurricanes, heat waves, wildfires, and tornadoes in 2017 cost at least $306 billion." isaster costs are expected to continue to increase due to rising natural hazard risk, decaying critical infrastructure, and economic pressures that limit investments in risk resilience," according to the document. FEMA did signal that it wants to invest more in "pre-disaster mitigation," which may or may not include climate change. But it wasn't so coy in its previous 2014-2018 strategic plan, which noted that the agency "will also ensure that future risks, including those influenced by climate change, are effectively integrated into the Agency's risk assessment resources and processes." Dropping climate change from FEMA's strategic plan is just the latest part of the Trump administration's long pattern of erasing climate change as a public policy issue across the federal government. Agencies including the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Department of the Interior have removed climate change language from many of their websites. Other agencies have limited access to policy and technical documents dealing with climate change. And some government research grant applications faced extra scrutiny and rejection for mentioning the "double C-word." It's not just rhetoric. President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement, and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases, the Clean Power Plan. The White House's latest budget proposal seeks a 72 percent cut to clean energy research and reduces FEMA's budget by almost $600 million from $16.1 billion. The recent personnel shake-up across the federal government doesn't bode well for the fight against climate change either. Rex Tillerson, who was fired as secretary of state this week, wanted the United States to remain in the Paris deal. His likely replacement, Mike Pompeo, doesn't believe humanity is warming the planet. And former White House adviser George David Banks, who suggested that Trump could rejoin the Paris agreement, resigned last month after he failed to get a security clearance due to past marijuana use. The net result is that the Trump administration is doing little to either mitigate or adapt to rising temperatures. And now homeowners, many of whom received disaster relief money from FEMA, are rebuilding in floodplains and high-fire-risk areas. It seems FEMA doesn't want to build on this history of climate disasters. Now it looks like we're condemned to repeat it.	False
485	usatoday	left_center_bias	2018-12-31	"The shift from 'future problem' to 'now crisis' is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real-world catastrophes."	When Republicans do talk about it, the refrain is that innovation and incentive alone can solve the issue.	When we talk about what's at stake here, we're talking about unimaginable suffering by the American people unless we solve the problem over the next 12 years," he said recently. "	Climate change is contributing to extreme weather conditions,  the spread of new diseases by insects and pests and changes to the availability of food and water, the researchers say.	That's a one-two punch we need to solve the climate crisis," said Conrad Schneider, advocacy Director for the Clean Air Task Force, a nonprofit organization pushing for carbon emission reduction.	With carbon capture, clean energy development and other advances, the reliance on fossil fuels must stop as well if the planet has any hope of meeting the net-zero carbon emissions goal by 2050 that scientists cite as a minimum to stave off the worst effects of a warming globe." <sep> A recent avalanche of evidence that the climate is already changing radically has hardened the case for immediate action." <sep> Democrats won the House in November riding a platform that included a call to address the crisis. <sep> Studies suggest there isn't much time for politicking on the issue. <sep> Global warming was blamed for intensifying natural disasters that killed dozens and cost billions of dollars across the country in 2018. <sep> Climate change is here and now. <sep> Making energy as clean as we can, as fast as we can, without raising costs to consumers will be accomplished through investment, invention and innovation," Barrasso wrote in a column for The New York Times. <sep> Climate change: Democrats see Trump, GOP inaction as 2020 opportunity WASHINGTON –  Environmental advocates say now is the time for decisive action on climate change. <sep> "Neither alone is going to get it done." <sep> But on climate change, he is is an unflinching opponent, largely because rising sea levels threaten his home state. <sep> But the dire warning has done little to prod Capitol Hill Republicans, many of whom still question the science behind climate change. <sep> More: El Niños to strengthen because of global warming, will cause 'more extreme weather', study saysMore: Emissions of carbon dioxide into Earth's atmosphere reach record highBut they roundly oppose dramatic steps, such as a carbon tax, to cut the nation off fossil fuels because it would increase the cost of energy. <sep> 	Climate change: Democrats see Trump, GOP inaction as 2020 opportunity WASHINGTON –  Environmental advocates say now is the time for decisive action on climate change. Democrats won the House in November riding a platform that included a call to address the crisis. Global warming was blamed for intensifying natural disasters that killed dozens and cost billions of dollars across the country in 2018. A recent avalanche of evidence that the climate is already changing radically has hardened the case for immediate action." Climate change is here and now. And palpably getting worse. That is rapidly changing how Americans think about it," David Doniger with the Natural Resources Defense Council wrote in a recent blog. "The shift from 'future problem' to 'now crisis' is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real-world catastrophes." And yet few – including Doniger – expect Washington to do much any time soon in the dramatic way scientists are urging. President Donald Trump, who in 2017 yanked the U.S. out of the Paris Accord on climate change, continues to doubt the science and says radical action would only hurt the economy. At an international climate conference in Poland in December, his emissaries doubled down on the expansion of fossil fuels, notably coal. And while incoming House Democratic leaders vow to make climate change a priority when they take control Thursday, their most ambitious proposals are expected to die in the GOP-controlled Senate, where Republicans remain resistant to far-reaching steps aimed at weaning the nation off carbon. So for Democrats and their environmental allies, the next two years in Washington are likely to be more about making a case to voters than actually scoring significant victories on climate change, said Bob Shrum, a longtime Democratic strategist who teaches political science at the University of Southern California."I don't think Trump's going to give an inch on this," he said. "I think we'll be at a stalemate (for the next two years). But I think Democrats can prepare the ground, can win the argument and can go into 2020 on these issues in a pretty strong position." Studies suggest there isn't much time for politicking on the issue. Some of the effects are already taking place, according to a landmark climate assessment the administration released in November. Climate change is contributing to extreme weather conditions,  the spread of new diseases by insects and pests and changes to the availability of food and water, the researchers say. But the dire warning has done little to prod Capitol Hill Republicans, many of whom still question the science behind climate change. Reluctant to cross Trump, they barely discuss the issue these days compared to three years ago, according to an analysis of press releases, floor statements, tweets and Facebook posts by software firm Quorom. When Republicans do talk about it, the refrain is that innovation and incentive alone can solve the issue. One of the most notable achievements they tout was passage of a tax credit to encourage the capture and storage of carbon emissions into the ground before they become airborne and contribute to global warming. More: El Niños to strengthen because of global warming, will cause 'more extreme weather', study saysMore: Emissions of carbon dioxide into Earth's atmosphere reach record highBut they roundly oppose dramatic steps, such as a carbon tax, to cut the nation off fossil fuels because it would increase the cost of energy. Wyoming GOP Sen. John Barrasso, chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and a sponsor of the carbon capture legislation, opposes such "punishing regulations." Making energy as clean as we can, as fast as we can, without raising costs to consumers will be accomplished through investment, invention and innovation," Barrasso wrote in a column for The New York Times. With carbon capture, clean energy development and other advances, the reliance on fossil fuels must stop as well if the planet has any hope of meeting the net-zero carbon emissions goal by 2050 that scientists cite as a minimum to stave off the worst effects of a warming globe." That's a one-two punch we need to solve the climate crisis," said Conrad Schneider, advocacy Director for the Clean Air Task Force, a nonprofit organization pushing for carbon emission reduction. "Neither alone is going to get it done." One of the few congressional Republicans willing to support a carbon tax is Florida Rep. Francis Rooney. Representing one of the country's reddest districts, the former businessman from Oklahoma is a pro-Trump conservative on most issues. But on climate change, he is is an unflinching opponent, largely because rising sea levels threaten his home state."I don't think we need to burn coal," Rooney said. "A carbon tax is the most market-oriented, nonbureaucratic, efficient way I can see to kill off coal." And Rooney said the intransigence most of his fellow Republicans, including President Trump, display on the issue is harmful to the GOP brand – and could come back to haunt them in 2020." We need to be reaching out to broaden our base, and if you look at this last election, our base is narrowing unfortunately," he said. "I talk to our kids and young people all the time, and they are more environmentally sensitive, they're more pro-alternative energy, they get the natural gas thing instead of coal." Tom Steyer, the liberal California billionaire who is mulling a presidential run in 2020, believes climate change – and Republicans' refusal to follow experts' advice despite the dire warnings – will help Democrats sweep into office two years from now." When we talk about what's at stake here, we're talking about unimaginable suffering by the American people unless we solve the problem over the next 12 years," he said recently. " And I think that we're very far from doing that. And it is unclear to me that we can summon that will without having substantial political victories across the board."	False
875	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-04-26	It recommends that the world cut emissions to a "net zero" by the year 2050 to hold back global heating.	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	Al Gore-Backed Group Demands Countries Kick In $15 Trillion to Fight Global Warming In its report, ETC insists that "investments" of up to $500 billion per annum would not "pose a major macroeconomic challenge" to nations accepting the call to fund the project.	According to the ETC website, the group's goal is to "accelerate change towards low-carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius."	ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement, which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval.		Al Gore-Backed Group Demands Countries Kick In $15 Trillion to Fight Global Warming In its report, ETC insists that "investments" of up to $500 billion per annum would not "pose a major macroeconomic challenge" to nations accepting the call to fund the project. The group is made up of energy company executives, activists, investment bankers, Al Gore, and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of  funds, the Daily Caller reports. According to the ETC website, the group's goal is to "accelerate change towards low-carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius." The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy. The punishing taxes, they say, would cause the energy industry to seriously explore alternate energy sources and cut back use of fossil fuels. It recommends that the world cut emissions to a "net zero" by the year 2050 to hold back global heating. The group also calls for direct investment in green energy. ETC claims that the world must fund "investment in renewables and other low-carbon technologies some $6 trillion higher ($300 billion per year); while the largest required increases – of almost $9 trillion ($450 billion per year) – will be in more efficient energy saving equipment and buildings." ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement, which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval. The plan was to take effect in 2016, but since coming to office President Trump has put a hold on much of the country's compliance with the agreement. Trump has also begun considering whether or not to completely pull out of the agreement. Trump's Environmental Protection Agency chief, Scott Pruitt, has urged the president to exit the agreement and at least one climate scientist, Dr. Duane Thresher, has warned Trump not to cave in to his daughter's "climate change madness." Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com	True
260	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-12-20	I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice."	"I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	Steyer then shifted focus to cleaning "up the air and water in the black and brown communities where our pollution is concentrated" and claimed it would create "millions of middle-class union jobs."	Tom Steyer Vows to 'Declare State of Emergency' on Climate Crisis Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate "crisis" America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, California."	In addition to what he plans to do in regards to climate change, Steyer also stated at a previous Democrat debate that he would "force" American towns to accept new, affordable housing in certain areas.		Tom Steyer Vows to 'Declare State of Emergency' on Climate Crisis Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate "crisis" America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, California."  am hoping, that we, in fact, that we will do what I am suggesting that we do, which is declare a state of emergency on day one of my presidency," Steyer said in regards to the relocation of families under certain living conditions in America."  believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority," Steyer continued. "I know that we have to deal with this crisis. I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice." Steyer then claimed he had previously "taken on oil companies and beaten them on environmental laws" and "pushed clean energy across this country." He also stated that he had "prevented pipelines and fossil fuel plants." Steyer then shifted focus to cleaning "up the air and water in the black and brown communities where our pollution is concentrated" and claimed it would create "millions of middle-class union jobs." Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg, another Democrat presidential hopeful, to put more emphasis on climate change, saying the "people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now" and "reinvent America." In addition to what he plans to do in regards to climate change, Steyer also stated at a previous Democrat debate that he would "force" American towns to accept new, affordable housing in certain areas.	True
690	Vox	left_bias	2017-10-10	According to the EPA, cutting exposure to particle pollution in the order the CPP does would have averted up to 3,600 premature deaths, 90,000 asthma attacks in children, and 1,700 heart attacks each year.	Over the past 30 years, the percentage of Americans with asthma has more than doubled, and climate change has been a significant driver of that trend.	So this means we'll continue to be exposed to these gases, which exacerbate asthma, heart disease, strokes."	But what's largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact people's health.	It's not just the future of the planet that's at stake here.	For the White House, bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters. <sep> Air pollution triggers asthma attacks, contributing to lung abnormalities, particularly in the developing pulmonary systems of children. <sep> According to the Global Burden of Disease project, more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution — and emissions from coal-fired plants are a major risk factor here. <sep> It's one reason why health experts have been pushing policymakers to rapidly phase out of coal. <sep> While the big focus of the plan was reducing carbon emissions, it also aimed to keep hundreds of thousands of tons of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide pollution out of the atmosphere. <sep> Health isn't a big part of the conversation about Trump administration assault on climate change mitigation policies but it needs to be. <sep> Reducing emissions from coal-fired power plants also makes it easier to breathe. <sep> 	Trump's war on climate policy is also a war on public health Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt is expected to sign a proposed rule on Tuesday that would roll back a key piece of President Obama's climate legacy. But what's largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact people's health. Pruitt wants to repeal Obama's Clean Power Plan, the signature Environmental Protection Agency policy that aims to cut emissions from existing US power plants — a big driver of climate change — 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. While the big focus of the plan was reducing carbon emissions, it also aimed to keep hundreds of thousands of tons of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide pollution out of the atmosphere. These greenhouse gases are not only harmful to the environment but also increase the risk of everything from asthma to heart disease. The Clean Power Plan, in other words, though never implemented, was a big win for health. According to the EPA, cutting exposure to particle pollution in the order the CPP does would have averted up to 3,600 premature deaths, 90,000 asthma attacks in children, and 1,700 heart attacks each year. Which means that the White House's move to repeal the Clean Power Plan "is a one-two punch to human health and the environment," said Georges Benjamin, executive director of the American Public Health Association. "Greenhouse gases are an enormous risk to human health. So this means we'll continue to be exposed to these gases, which exacerbate asthma, heart disease, strokes." According to the Global Burden of Disease project, more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution — and emissions from coal-fired plants are a major risk factor here. It's one reason why health experts have been pushing policymakers to rapidly phase out of coal. For miners, the immediate health risks include black lung disease and scarring of the lung tissue. But the pollutants emitted when coal is processed — including sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and mercury — have much more far-reaching effects on many more people. In one large study involving 450,000 Americans followed between 1982 and 2004, researchers found that increased exposure to the particles in fossil fuel emissions increased the risk of death from heart disease — and particles from coal burning were five times more damaging than other similar particles. Reducing emissions from coal-fired power plants also makes it easier to breathe. Over the past 30 years, the percentage of Americans with asthma has more than doubled, and climate change has been a significant driver of that trend. Air pollution triggers asthma attacks, contributing to lung abnormalities, particularly in the developing pulmonary systems of children. For the White House, bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters. "The war on coal is over," Pruitt said Monday in Kentucky when he announced the move. For now, the environmental community and some state governments are expected to oppose the rule in federal courts. The public health community should be there too. Health isn't a big part of the conversation about Trump administration assault on climate change mitigation policies but it needs to be. It's not just the future of the planet that's at stake here.	True
726	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-11	The bank had not not yet calculated how many clients would be affected by the new policy, and could not immediately respond to questions about how much money is invested in the targeted sectors.	"As an international bank, our role is to help drive the energy transition and contribute to the decarbonization of the economy."	Yet the announcement garnered praise from three environmental groups that teamed up to pressure BNP Paribas to curtail support for fossil fuels that pose a particular threat of exacerbating climate change.	Still, the move represents a public relations victory for a bank plagued by scandals in recent years.	e're a long-standing partner to the energy sector and we're determined to support the transition to a more sustainable world," BNP Paribas CEO Jean-Laurent Bonnafé said in a statement.	At that point, coal was becoming an unprofitable investment, and banks faced mounting pressure from environmentalists to stop supporting the dirtiest fuels in the lead up the Paris climate agreement. <sep> 	France's Biggest Bank Becomes The First To Cut Off Funding For Natural Gas Fracking BNP Paribas on Wednesday became the first big bank to pledge to stop financing natural gas fracking projects as part of a new policy cheered by environmentalists as having the greatest impact of any financial giant yet. Under the new policy, France's largest bank will refuse to lend to companies who generate more than half their revenue from fracked oil, gas or liquefied natural gas export terminals. The rules also apply to tar sands, considered one of the dirtiest sources of oil. Multinational banks, including BNP Paribas, began putting strict limits on funding for coal projects in 2015. At that point, coal was becoming an unprofitable investment, and banks faced mounting pressure from environmentalists to stop supporting the dirtiest fuels in the lead up the Paris climate agreement. Last month, JPMorgan Chase became the target of a new campaign urging it to end financing for companies that drill tar sands, a particularly dirty source of oil that forms the backbone of Canada's industry. Until now, no financial giant has clamped down on natural gas, which produces far less carbon dioxide than oil or coal. The fuel now provides most of the United States' electricity and is credited with reducing emissions by weaning the country off coal. That has allowed advocates to tout the gas as a critical tool in the transition from heavily-polluting fuels to renewable energy. But fracking ― an extraction technique that involves shooting a highly-pressurized chemical and sand-laced water into shale rock to extract oil and gas ― has become a lightning rod for environmentalists. It produces toxic wastewater and leaks emissions of methane, a far more most potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. And the process of liquefying natural gas from vapor requires so much energy it ends up being as dirty as coal." he scientific literature on the climate impact of gas, especially fracked gas, is emerging," Jason Disterhoft, a senior campaigner at Rainforest Action Network, told HuffPost by phone. Now that the prices of solar and wind energy were plummeting, there's less need to use natural gas as a stepping stone between dirtier fossil fuels and renewables, he added. BNP Paribas offered few details on its new policy, including when it would go into effect, though it said it should have an update by the end of the year. Europe's second largest bank also said that companies could continue to receive backing if they lower the amount of revenue earned from fracking or tar sands to less than half their business. The exact ratio has not yet been decided, a spokeswoman said." ven though we're going to have this policy in place doesn't mean at the same time we'll right away cut all the clients that don't fall under it," Mylene Benmoussa, a BNP Paribas spokeswoman, told HuffPost by phone on Wednesday. "It's going to be a gradual and shared transition." The bank had not not yet calculated how many clients would be affected by the new policy, and could not immediately respond to questions about how much money is invested in the targeted sectors. France banned fracking in 2011. The country generates 11 percent of its electricity from gas, according to data from RTE, the French transmission operator. And the government in Paris announced plans last month to prohibit oil and gas production by 2040. For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing, an aggressive climate policy makes business sense. Yet the announcement garnered praise from three environmental groups that teamed up to pressure BNP Paribas to curtail support for fossil fuels that pose a particular threat of exacerbating climate change. The trio includes the San Francisco-based Rainforest Action Network, the French chapter of Friends of Earth, and Save the Rio Grande Valley from Liquefied Natural Gas, a local Texas group protesting the construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal in the state's southern region. Still, the move represents a public relations victory for a bank plagued by scandals in recent years. In 2015, the company was ordered to pay $8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan, Cuba and Iran. In June, three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800,000 people. In July, the Federal Reserve fined the firm $246 million for its "unsafe and unsound practices" in foreign currency trading division, failing to crack down on employees who violated rules on sharing information with competitors." e're a long-standing partner to the energy sector and we're determined to support the transition to a more sustainable world," BNP Paribas CEO Jean-Laurent Bonnafé said in a statement. "As an international bank, our role is to help drive the energy transition and contribute to the decarbonization of the economy."	True
779	USA Today	left_center_bias	2017-06-02	Experts say pulling out of the accord will slow but hardly stop the momentum that's been building to keep a global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.	"The Paris Accord would undermine our economy, hamstring our workers, weaken our sovereignty, impose unacceptable legal risk, and put us at a permanent disadvantage to the other counties of the world."	Under current policy, the U.S. is still set to come "within striking distance" of meeting its 2020 goal under a prior U.N. climate change accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17% below 2005 levels, according to a report by energy analysts the Rhodium Group.	The international agreement, which was signed in 2015 and went into effect seven months ago, is considered a major part the environmental legacy of the Obama administration.	And Wall Street fund managers and large businesses are moving away from fossil fuels due to market conditions, further contributing to increased use of cleaner energy sources.		U.S. is reducing dependence on fossil fuels even without Paris climate agreement WASHINGTON – President Trump's decision to back out of the Paris climate accord is a blow to environmental activists, but the nation's steady, years-long reduction in greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming won't suddenly stop. Utility companies have announced plans to fully or partially close more than a half dozen coal-fired power plants since Trump took office fewer than five months ago, taking some of the nation's largest greenhouse gas emitters off-line. And Wall Street fund managers and large businesses are moving away from fossil fuels due to market conditions, further contributing to increased use of cleaner energy sources. Since 2010, more than 250 coal-fired power plants have closed in the U.S. On Wednesday, Exxon Mobil shareholders voted – against the board's recommendation – to require the company publicly report on the risks to its business posed by climate change." he United States is making progress," said John Coequyt, Global Climate Policy Director for the Sierra Club. "We're moving forward. We believe the rest of the world will do the same." Trump has already taken unilateral steps to roll back regulations that were designed to implement the Paris agreement, including reversing President Obama's Clean Power Plan rule that sought to lower greenhouse emissions. Trump campaigned on a promise to withdraw the U.S. from the accord, saying it would lead to higher energy prices and hurt domestic businesses from being able to compete globally." As president, I have one obligation and that obligation is to the American people," Trump said during a speech in the Rose Garden announcing the decision. "The Paris Accord would undermine our economy, hamstring our workers, weaken our sovereignty, impose unacceptable legal risk, and put us at a permanent disadvantage to the other counties of the world." The international agreement, which was signed in 2015 and went into effect seven months ago, is considered a major part the environmental legacy of the Obama administration. Michael A. Needham, chief executive officer of the conservative Heritage Action for America, applauded the president's move." Withdrawal from the agreement marks a critical step in unraveling former President Obama's destructive legacy," Needham said. "Not only did Obama make this agreement without approval from Congress, but in doing so he handed more control of America's energy to foreign officials." Experts say pulling out of the accord will slow but hardly stop the momentum that's been building to keep a global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Under current policy, the U.S. is still set to come "within striking distance" of meeting its 2020 goal under a prior U.N. climate change accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17% below 2005 levels, according to a report by energy analysts the Rhodium Group. But the analysis said withdrawing from the accord makes it very unlikely the U.S. will meet the 26-28% target set out under the Paris deal. The exit from the accord will allow states, such as California and New York, to play a leading role in meeting climate change targets. California, for example, has stood out with its toughest-in-the-nation vehicle emissions laws that often effectively establish auto industry standards nationwide. California Gov. Jerry Brown said he hopes Trump's "insane move" to back out of the Paris accord will spur others to action." California will resist," he told reporters on a conference call after Trump's announcement. "California (is) all in. We're on the field ready for battle and while our president may be AWOL in the battle against climate change, we're not."	True
100	motherjones	left_bias	2019-07-03	A separate resolution, which Pelosi described as less ideal, would call for a forum in which candidates would appear individually to address climate policy.	The result was a pair of resolutions that could come up for a vote at the party's August meeting.	Climate received 15 minutes of discussion over two nights, but the largely superficial discussion of the issue only seemed to strengthen the activists' case, as key policy proposals such as the Green New Deal and 100 percent renewable energy mandates were virtually ignored.	"I cannot rule out any other debate that would highlight both the necessity of defeating the climate crisis and calling for the candidates to step up to the plate," Inslee said in an interview with Mother Jones.	It's not just because activists want to vet candidate platforms and solutions, but because even getting candidates to talk more about an issue can raise the issue's profile.	The controversy reemerged after the first round of Democratic debates last week. <sep> Take a look at what I'm talking about—and by the way, the first climate change plan in the history of the Congress?" <sep> Still, six candidates either haven't taken a position on a climate change debate or didn't respond to requests for comment in time for publication. <sep> In April, climate activists launched a grassroots campaign demanding that one of the debates be dedicated to climate; they noted that presidential debate moderators had a long history of giving short shrift to the issue. <sep> A third way forward, she suggested, might include an effort to survey party members about which issues deserve a standalone debate." <sep> 	Nearly Every Democratic Presidential Candidate Is Now Backing a Debate on Climate Change Nineteen of the 25 Democratic presidential candidates have gone on record in favor of holding a debate devoted to climate change policy. In the past three days, four more candidates—including Kamala Harris—have told Mother Jones that they support a climate debate, raising the stakes for the Democratic National Committee, which has so far resisted allowing such an event to take place. In addition to the California senator, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, former Rep. John Delaney (Md.), and former Rep. Joe Sestak (Pa.) are now calling for a climate debate, joining big-name candidates including Joe Biden, Bernie Sanders, and Elizabeth Warren. Earlier this year, the DNC announced plans to hold a dozen primary debates in 2019 and 2020 and to prohibit candidates from appearing in any debates that had not been approved by the national party. In April, climate activists launched a grassroots campaign demanding that one of the debates be dedicated to climate; they noted that presidential debate moderators had a long history of giving short shrift to the issue. It's not just because activists want to vet candidate platforms and solutions, but because even getting candidates to talk more about an issue can raise the issue's profile. The activists quickly won support from Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, who has put global warming at the center of his campaign. But the DNC's line all along has been that it wouldn't hold any issue-specific debates. The controversy reemerged after the first round of Democratic debates last week. Climate received 15 minutes of discussion over two nights, but the largely superficial discussion of the issue only seemed to strengthen the activists' case, as key policy proposals such as the Green New Deal and 100 percent renewable energy mandates were virtually ignored. DNC officials spent the weekend reconsidering the matter. The result was a pair of resolutions that could come up for a vote at the party's August meeting. One proposal, backed by DNC executive committee member Christine Pelosi and others, would create a climate debate. A separate resolution, which Pelosi described as less ideal, would call for a forum in which candidates would appear individually to address climate policy. A third way forward, she suggested, might include an effort to survey party members about which issues deserve a standalone debate." t was somewhat ironic we [DNC officials] spent more time debating climate in our debate on Saturday than the candidates did Wednesday and Thursday," Pelosi said. If a climate debate does happen, much of the credit will belong to activist organizations like the US Youth Climate Strike, a teen-led group that has pressured candidates into endorsing the efforts. They plan to join with another youth-oriented group, Sunrise Movement, to keep up the pressure throughout the summer. Still, six candidates either haven't taken a position on a climate change debate or didn't respond to requests for comment in time for publication. They are Sen. Cory Booker, who called for more time to be devoted to the issue after the first debate; Montana Gov. Steve Bullock; former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper; Wayne Messam, the mayor of Miramar, Florida; California Rep. Eric Swalwell; and author Marianne Williamson. Here's what each of the candidates have said:Biden addressed a Greenpeace activist at a campaign rally in Ottumwa, Iowa, on June 11: "That's what we should be doing," he said. "I'm all in, man. Take a look at what I'm talking about—and by the way, the first climate change plan in the history of the Congress?" The campaign confirmed his position to Mother Jones in July. He tweeted in response to a Youth Climate Strike activist:The candidate tweeted a video of her reading a letter from an activist asking her to sign a petition for a climate change debate. "I'm up for that," she said. She also backed Inslee's pushback against the DNC:Harris' communications director told Mother Jones, "She's said she is happy to debate." Harris previously hadn't said publicly that she supports a climate change debate. Buttigieg's campaign did not clarify the candidate's position on a debate, but a staffer says he "plans to continue to address the issue of climate change at every debate and every event that he attends."O'Rourke's campaign did not respond to a request for comment in time for publication to confirm Youth Climate Strike's tweet:Booker supports more climate change discussion, but the campaign told Mother Jones that the decision is in the hands of the DNC." ohn supports having a climate debate," his communications director wrote in a July 1 email. "Climate has been a big part of our campaign and we mentioned our carbon fee and dividend plan during the debate last week." A DNC debate focused on climate change would show the world that America intends to lead again on this issue, and would be a smart place to discuss the key tenets of the Green New Deal—infrastructure, green jobs and clean air and water—and how to put a price on carbon," she told the Daily Beast. Bennet told Politico he thought a climate debate would be "great." Inslee was the first candidate to endorse a climate change debate, on April 17, launching his own petition aimed at the DNC. "I cannot rule out any other debate that would highlight both the necessity of defeating the climate crisis and calling for the candidates to step up to the plate," Inslee said in an interview with Mother Jones. "Sixty-second sound bites, which is all you'll be able to get in a party debate, is grossly inadequate to the task." The candidate wrote on Wednesday in an email to Mother Jones, "How could you not? It is the most destructive threat to America and mankind."	True
52	nationalreview	right_bias	2019-04-24	In a video that was shared widely, including by celebrities such as James Corden, the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the "big, structural, political economic stuff."	Instead, the improvement is gradual and constant, as individuals and businesses find ways to squeeze a bit more out of their energy use.	As the Left becomes more detached from responsible and effective environmental solutions, conservatives should confidently fill the void.	A study by researchers at the University of Michigan and Cornell University found that those who are "highly concerned" about climate change are "least likely to report individual-level actions" to reduce their environmental impact.	Ironically, though, many who demand action do little of it themselves.	Even as they call for an end to air travel, politicians who demand we impose lifestyle change have not curtailed their own carbon-producing travel, despite living in the era of HD video conferencing. <sep> Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference. <sep> Environmental activists tweeted their support, saying they "demand action now" and worrying about the climate crisis. <sep> 	Environmental Hypocrites of the Left Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day blusterGeorge Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self-righteous without making any real sacrifice. In a video that was shared widely, including by celebrities such as James Corden, the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the "big, structural, political economic stuff." Monbiot concludes that we need to "go straight to the heart of capitalism and overthrow it." At the same time, he dismisses "pathetic, micro-consumerist bollocks which just isn't going to get us anywhere." This is absolution for those who want to feel green but can't be bothered with going to the effort and expense of actually living their own values. Publicly advocating the "do as I say, not as I do" approach reinforces the reality that conservatives tend to live out the environmental ethic that the Left only preaches. As a conservative who has worked in environmental policy for two decades, I have been frustrated watching as ideological fellow travelers avoid environmental topics, even as they privately express their commitment to environmental stewardship. As the Left becomes more detached from responsible and effective environmental solutions, conservatives should confidently fill the void. One reason conservatives do not engage is that environmentalism has become synonymous with horrible government policy. Every Earth Day, we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues. Clever hashtags are generated. Alarmist slogans are flaunted. Naked people glue themselves to park benches. And all who disagree with the demands for more government power are denigrated as "deniers." The other 364 days of the year, however, people on the left do little in their daily lives to justify all that environmental browbeating. A study by researchers at the University of Michigan and Cornell University found that those who are "highly concerned" about climate change are "least likely to report individual-level actions" to reduce their environmental impact. Those who considered themselves "skeptical" of climate change "were most likely to report engaging in individual-level pro-environmental behaviors." To be sure, not all conservatives are skeptical of climate change, but generally, we aren't nearly as alarmist about climate change or other environmental issues, even when we recognize the risk. That gap between the Left's loud talk and their unwillingness to make personal sacrifices is not an accident. It is now part of their dogma. Individual actions are mere "bollocks," useless gestures. Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference. This dichotomy is evident in my home state of Washington, where politicians pride themselves on showing "leadership" in the effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. This year, our legislature enacted a law requiring the state to meet a 100 percent renewable-energy target by 2045. Environmental activists tweeted their support, saying they "demand action now" and worrying about the climate crisis. Ironically, though, many who demand action do little of it themselves. For only a few dollars a month, anyone who supports renewable energy can already buy renewable-energy credits (RECs), ensuring that there is enough renewable energy on the grid to cover their personal use. I asked one politician pushing for the 100 percent–renewable requirement if she buys RECs to cover her environmental impact. She admitted that she does not and has no plans to do so. This is consistent with the message of Monbiot and political leaders pushing the Green New Deal. Personal sacrifice is of little consequence, so why even try? Even as they call for an end to air travel, politicians who demand we impose lifestyle change have not curtailed their own carbon-producing travel, despite living in the era of HD video conferencing. The most effective environmental efforts are often small, personal actions in which people have skin in the game. Farmers find ways to conserve water because waste costs money. Aluminum cans are lighter today because it saves resources and they cost less to ship. Homeowners and businesses conserve energy because they pay the price for every kilowatt-hour. When they don't save, they change course, unlike politicians who fear public embarrassment and throw good money after bad. This isn't just a theory. The amount of energy per unit of GDP in the United States has fallen steadily for several decades. There are no sharp drops. Instead, the improvement is gradual and constant, as individuals and businesses find ways to squeeze a bit more out of their energy use. Politicians can lecture all they want, but these are truly the front lines of environmental stewardship. As Earth Day 2019 came and went, the pattern of environmentalists demanding action that they themselves won't take predictably repeated itself. The pattern of conservatives' avoiding talk of environmental stewardship even as they live it every day, however, is a pattern we should break. Effective environmental policy doesn't start with politicians and publicity stunts. Conservatives understand this. We should make it clear that personal environmental stewardship is not only more effective, it is a more moral way to live.	True
94	vox	left_bias	2019-01-16	"I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally."	o you agree with the scientific community that climate change is a global crisis?"	Sen. John Barrasso (R-WY) suggested that technology is the main solution to greenhouse gases and asked Wheeler about the EPA's role in fostering innovation and using tactics like capturing carbon dioxide to extract more oil or make building materials.	would not call it the greatest crisis, no, sir," Wheeler responded.	Unlike Pruitt, Wheeler did acknowledge that humans are driving changes in the climate and that it must be addressed.	Some Republicans raised concerns about climate change as well. <sep> nder these circumstances, it's not possible for EPA to do its mission," said Sen. Ben Cardin (D-MD). <sep> As my colleague David Roberts pointed out, coming up with new technologies is indeed a key aspect of fighting climate change, but for Republicans, it may be a way to head off more ambitious climate policies. <sep> Yet global emissions continue to rise, and scientists recently warned that we're running out of time to accelerate the global effort to limit warming to a less disastrous level. <sep> And innovation seems to be the key thread uniting Republican responses to climate change. <sep> Instead of joining this effort, the EPA is working to relax rules on emissions. <sep> And given that Wheeler answers to President Trump, who has dismissed climate change as a concern, it's unlikely we'll see any radical changes at the EPA anytime soon. <sep> Several Republicans brought up climate change during the hearing, noting their concerns about the rise of carbon dioxide emissions in the United States in 2018, which Wheeler had disputed." <sep> 	EPA nominee Andrew Wheeler's confirmation hearing was all about climate change Senate Democrats used the Wednesday confirmation hearing of Andrew Wheeler, the acting administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, to push him on the agency's negligence on climate change, its rollback of regulations designed to protect Americans' health, and his uncannily close ties to the fossil fuel industry." o you agree with the scientific community that climate change is a global crisis?" Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) asked Wheeler repeatedly."  would not call it the greatest crisis, no, sir," Wheeler responded. "I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally." Substantively, I think you have your thumb, wrist, forearm, and elbow on the scale," Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) told Wheeler, referring to Wheeler's past work as a coal lobbyist. Some Republicans raised concerns about climate change as well. At a few points, the hearing was interrupted by protesters and chants of "shut down Wheeler, not the EPA." Eight protesters were arrested. Wheeler, for his part, emphasized in the hearing before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee that the EPA was revising Obama-era environmental regulations like the Clean Power Plan and the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards to comply with court rulings. It was a signal that he plans to continue to methodically advance Trump's agenda, but in a much less bombastic way than former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, who resigned last year in disgrace after numerous allegations of ethics violations. Some Democrats even praised Wheeler for his collegiality and for being much more accessible than Pruitt. However, others said he was tilting regulations in favor of the sectors the EPA is supposed to regulate, for instance, weakening pollution regulations on coal-fired power plants. Before his work as a coal lobbyist, Wheeler was a staffer at the EPA and on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. He was also an Eagle Scout and emphasized his love of hiking and camping. "I do consider myself a conservationist," he said. Unlike Pruitt, Wheeler did acknowledge that humans are driving changes in the climate and that it must be addressed. When Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-OR) asked Wheeler how he rated climate change in importance on a scale of 1 to 10, Wheeler said it was "8 or 9." Yet global emissions continue to rise, and scientists recently warned that we're running out of time to accelerate the global effort to limit warming to a less disastrous level. Instead of joining this effort, the EPA is working to relax rules on emissions. And given that Wheeler answers to President Trump, who has dismissed climate change as a concern, it's unlikely we'll see any radical changes at the EPA anytime soon. The Senate is expected to confirm Wheeler soon as the new head of the agency in a vote. Several Republicans brought up climate change during the hearing, noting their concerns about the rise of carbon dioxide emissions in the United States in 2018, which Wheeler had disputed." e heard that there was an emissions rise in 2018, which you attributed to a cold winter, a hot summer, and also to more economic activity," said Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV). "You said you expect that to go down over time. What gives you the confidence that if this economy continues to roll the way we think it will, that will actually happen?"Wheeler said that greater energy efficiency in the power sector along with fuel economy standards would continue to drive down emissions. Sen. John Barrasso (R-WY) suggested that technology is the main solution to greenhouse gases and asked Wheeler about the EPA's role in fostering innovation and using tactics like capturing carbon dioxide to extract more oil or make building materials. Wheeler said that all of EPA's programs encourage innovation. "One thing that's important on the regulatory side is that we don't try to tip the scale one way or the other, for example, on energy sources," he said. That Republicans are acknowledging climate change at all is a sign that the political winds on the issue have shifted and they can no longer afford to be passive on the issue if they want policies on their terms. And innovation seems to be the key thread uniting Republican responses to climate change. As my colleague David Roberts pointed out, coming up with new technologies is indeed a key aspect of fighting climate change, but for Republicans, it may be a way to head off more ambitious climate policies. Already, momentum is building in the House for taxing carbon as well as a Green New Deal to fight climate change. During the hearing, Democrats revealed some of their strategy to pressure the EPA on climate change going forward. Since they lost seats in the Senate, Democrats emphasized key state-level disputes, like the fight between California and the EPA over fuel economy standards. Vehicles are a huge source of greenhouse gas emissions, and California wants to retain its authority to set tighter emissions rules than the rest of the country. The Trump administration wants one standard for the country as well as a much more relaxed fuel economy target than the one proposed under President Obama. Lawmakers from both sides also lamented the ongoing partial government shutdown. Most of the EPA's 13,000 employees are furloughed, but some are still on the job to deal with responses to disasters like the fallout from California's wildfires last year. Some employees were also recalled to help the EPA meet court-ordered deadlines for producing environmental regulations." nder these circumstances, it's not possible for EPA to do its mission," said Sen. Ben Cardin (D-MD). "I want to underscore how tragic this shutdown is."	True
231	npr	left_center_bias	2019-09-20	"I'm bothered by the lack of movement to make meaningful advances to solve the climate crisis," says Lufrano-Jardine.	Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes "respect of indigenous land, sustainable agriculture, protecting biodiversity, environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy," said 17-year-old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar.	Many of those demands are part of the Green New Deal, which was crafted by progressive Democratic lawmakers but so far hasn't gone anywhere in Congress.	And a quarter of the poll respondents said they have participated in a school walk-out, a rally or contacted a government official on the issue.	Louisiana Republican Rep. Garret Graves told them climate change has exacerbated the loss of his state's coastline.		Global Youth Climate Strike Expected To Draw Large Crowds Spurred by what they see as a sluggish, ineffectual response to the existential threat of global warming, student activists from around the world plan to skip school today for what organizers call a Global Climate Strike. The focus for young activists is the United Nations Climate Action Summit taking place Monday in New York City. The strike's figurehead is 16-year-old Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, who traveled from Sweden to New York on an emission-free sailboat. A little over a year ago Thunberg began her school strike for the climate, by herself, outside the Swedish Parliament. Support for a school climate strike has since spread across the globe. In the last year Thunberg has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize by Norwegian lawmakers. She's also met with Pope Francis and lawmakers in several countries." We are currently on track for a world that could displace billions of people from their homes," Thunberg warned this week during a speech accepting Amnesty International's Ambassador of Conscience Award. She ended her acceptance speech with a call to action: "See you on the streets!"In New York City thousands of students may fill the streets with Thunberg because, as the school district announced on Twitter, it is giving strikers excused absences. In Oregon Portland Public Schools is doing the same. Strikes also are planned in rural areas where just a few dozen protesters are expected. Nicholas DuVernay, 17, organized a protest in his politically-conservative small town of La Grande, Ore." Since, probably, the beginning of my junior year in high school I've been interested in climate science and pretty passionate about environmental topics," says DuVernay, who plans to study climate science when he attends college next year.A Washington Post-Kaiser Family Foundation poll this week shows a majority of teenagers believe human-caused climate change will cause harm to them. And a quarter of the poll respondents said they have participated in a school walk-out, a rally or contacted a government official on the issue. There have been similar student events in the past year. But this time students are asking adults to join them. At the University of Nevada, Reno, Stallar Lufrano-Jardine, 36, is setting up an event on campus where she's an employee and student."I'm bothered by the lack of movement to make meaningful advances to solve the climate crisis," says Lufrano-Jardine. But it's clear younger people are leading this movement and they say most adults — especially policy-makers — are moving far too slowly. Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes "respect of indigenous land, sustainable agriculture, protecting biodiversity, environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy," said 17-year-old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar. Many of those demands are part of the Green New Deal, which was crafted by progressive Democratic lawmakers but so far hasn't gone anywhere in Congress. At a Capitol Hill press event this week Nazar said she hopes the proposal defines her generation. "I am not a part of Generation Z. I am a part of Gen GND — the generation of the Green New Deal," said Nazar as supporters cheered. Also on Capitol Hill this week, Thunberg and other activists testified before lawmakers. Louisiana Republican Rep. Garret Graves told them climate change has exacerbated the loss of his state's coastline."I agree that we need to take aggressive action. I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable, rational manner," said Graves. But his idea of what that means is very different than the activists' vision. Graves agrees with President Trump on the need to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement. Graves told the student organizers the pact allows China to continue emitting more carbon dioxide while the U.S. cuts emissions. "Paris and its related pledges would undermine U.S. competitiveness," his spokesman said. Graves got immediate push-back from the young activists, including 17-year-old Jamie Margolin from Seattle who asked how Graves will respond to questions from his children and grandchildren about whether he did enough to address climate change." Can you really look them in the eye and say, 'No, sorry, I couldn't do anything because that country over there didn't do anything, so if they're not going to do it then I'm not.' That is shameful and that is cowardly," Margolin said. Organizers predict this climate strike will be the largest yet. More than 2000 scientists around the world have pledged to join. Some companies also have signed on, including Patagonia and Seventh Generation.	True
112	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-09-05	It's not enough to end our public lands' contribution to climate change," Warren wrote in an announcement at the time.	"If we are going to keep pace with what science demands, we must reduce greenhouse gas emissions on our public lands while also restoring protections for threatened forests, from the Southern Appalachians to Alaska's Tongass" National Forest.	"We have an enormous opportunity to make them a part of the climate solution, and for both economic and environmental reasons, we should take it."	"I've connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change."	As the Trump administration continues its push to expand such development, top candidates for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination agree that America's public land must be a tool in the fight against climate change, not a contributor to the problem.		Public Land Gets Its Moment At The Climate Town Hall A federal report last year found that about a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions in the United States come from fossil fuel extraction on federal land. As the Trump administration continues its push to expand such development, top candidates for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination agree that America's public land must be a tool in the fight against climate change, not a contributor to the problem. During CNN's marathon town hall on climate change Wednesday, candidates vowed to end oil, gas and coal leasing on federal land as part of a shared goal to decarbonizing the economy and prevent catastrophic warming. Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) and former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro said they would also work to expand federally protected acreage." e actually need to undo the damage that this administration has done and then expand the lands that we're protecting in our country," Castro said. "We can do that." Most of the 10 Democratic candidates who appeared on stage Wednesday have released climate plans that call for reversing Trump's sweeping land rollbacks, safeguarding new sites or fully funding the popular Land and Water Conservation Fund, which uses offshore fossil-fuel revenue to protect natural areas and water resources. Castro, Harris, Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) and former Vice President Joe Biden have all committed to working toward protecting 30% of America's land and water by 2030." he next president must be ready to lead the climate response we need to see on our shared lands and waters," Huntley said. "If we are going to keep pace with what science demands, we must reduce greenhouse gas emissions on our public lands while also restoring protections for threatened forests, from the Southern Appalachians to Alaska's Tongass" National Forest. Ahead of Wednesday's forum, Harris released a $10 trillion climate plan that calls for "diversifying the marine and land ecosystems that we protect and targeting biodiversity hotspots and critical wildlife corridors," as well as using existing presidential authorities to set aside critical landscapes. Biden's plan promises to permanently protect areas like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge ― a pristine Alaska wilderness that the Trump administration is working to open to oil drilling ― and to set up programs to reforest and expand renewable energy on federal lands. Castro's $10 trillion climate plan, also released this week, calls for designating new national monuments, parks and wildlife refuge and outlines a so-called "Green Opportunity Corps" that would put 15,000 young adults to work in areas like public land conservation. He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy, which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species." e need to connect the dots," Castro said Wednesday. "I've connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change." Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) was not asked Wednesday about how she would approach America's public lands and waters, despite being the only candidate to release a comprehensive plan specific to protecting them. Her policy vision, unveiled in April, includes overturning Trump's land rollbacks, a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land, and recruiting 10,000 youth and veterans for a "21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps." It's not enough to end our public lands' contribution to climate change," Warren wrote in an announcement at the time. "We have an enormous opportunity to make them a part of the climate solution, and for both economic and environmental reasons, we should take it." All 10 candidates that participated in the CNN climate forum have voiced support for the Green New Deal, the landmark resolution unveiled in February by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) and Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) and that outlined lofty goals of reaching net-zero emissions by midcentury. Supporters of the Green New Deal have said public land is key to its success. The plan calls for "ensuring that public lands, waters, and oceans are protected" and "restoring and protecting threatened, endangered, and fragile ecosystems." Questions posed to candidates on Wednesday varied, and not all were asked about public land and conservation. But nearly all have policy proposals that drive home the need for the nation to be a better environmental steward. Former Rep. Beto O'Rourke (Texas) says he would go beyond previous presidents to "protect our most wild, beautiful, and biodiverse places for generations to come — including more of the Arctic and of our sensitive landscapes and seascapes than ever before."	True
320	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-06-15	The idea of a carbon tax — a fee charged onto companies according to the amount of carbon emissions their plants emit into the atmosphere — has been recommended as a "market friendly" method to controlling CO2 pollution.	The meeting was just the latest in a series of public moves the pope has made against traditional forms of electricity production.	org.	"In addition, a carbon tax would cost over 500,000 jobs in manufacturing and more than 1 million jobs by 2030.	The leader of the Catholic Church encouraged executives to give up fossil fuels and embrace renewable energy technology.		The Pope And Big Oil Agree: You Should Pay More For Energy Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change. Pope Francis hosted a two-day summit at the Vatican on June 8 and 9, inviting key players in the oil and gas industry for a back-and-forth discussion on climate change. The leader of the Catholic Church encouraged executives to give up fossil fuels and embrace renewable energy technology. The meeting was just the latest in a series of public moves the pope has made against traditional forms of electricity production. Most who took part in the summit agreed that a fee on carbon emissions is pivotal in reforming the U.S. energy sector, according to an Axios report. Ernest Moniz, who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration, took part in the summit and said "one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low-carbon system." Key members who met with Pope Francis include: ExxonMobil Chief Executive Darren Woods, BP CEO Bob Dudley, Equinor CEO Eldar Saetre and numerous others. The idea of a carbon tax — a fee charged onto companies according to the amount of carbon emissions their plants emit into the atmosphere — has been recommended as a "market friendly" method to controlling CO2 pollution. While carbon tax proposals appeared popular at the Vatican, it has not garnered the same amount of support in Congress. Majority Whip Steve Scalise and West Virginia Rep. David McKinley introduced a House resolution in April that explicitly condemns a tax on carbon dioxide pollution. (RELATED: Pope Criticizes Oil Executives, Silent On Ireland Legalizing Abortion)In a public letter of support for Scalise's resolution, a group of conservative organizations claimed that a carbon tax would ultimately result in a loss of jobs and higher electricity bills: "For example, a 2014 Heritage Foundation report found that a $37 per ton carbon tax would lead to a loss of more than $2.5 trillion in aggregate gross domestic product by 2030. That is more than $21,000 in income loss per family," a portion of the letter read. "In addition, a carbon tax would cost over 500,000 jobs in manufacturing and more than 1 million jobs by 2030. According to a 2013 CBO report, a carbon tax is highly regressive." House members have yet to vote on the anti-carbon tax resolution. However, the lower chamber of Congress passed a similar version in June 2016, collecting six Democratic votes and zero Republicans opposition. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	True
616	National Review	right_bias	2017-09-12	The point is that opponents don't like this science because of the political and social consequences of it.	But that didn't stop President Obama and others from suggesting the dry spell was a symptom of climate change.	— not "believing" in science because recent hurricanes have been bad and climate change is causing it and blah blah blah.	Both GLAAD and Human Rights Watch can't seem to decide whether the science is bad because it's fake and flawed or bad because it might work.	Maybe this effort isn't up to snuff yet.	But look: I don't want to debate global warming because a) it's boring to me, b) you get screamed at by people who act like we have seconds to act before the world ends, and c) you — or at least I — also get screamed at by people who insist it's all a complete hoax. <sep> 	Oh Scientia! Oh Mores! Over the last two weeks we've heard a lot of folderol and bambosh about Republicans, conservatives, Texans — etc. — not "believing" in science because recent hurricanes have been bad and climate change is causing it and blah blah blah. As you can probably tell, I don't think much of all that. We had a historic lull in hurricanes until the lull was over. Once the hurricanes started back up, so did the claim that climate change caused the hurricanes just as the scientists predicted — the same scientists who didn't predict the lull. Similarly, California had a historic drought that recently came to an end. Most of the climate models say that California should get wetter because of global warming. But that didn't stop President Obama and others from suggesting the dry spell was a symptom of climate change. Then, when California experienced huge amounts of precipitation, suddenly the models were prescient. But look: I don't want to debate global warming because a) it's boring to me, b) you get screamed at by people who act like we have seconds to act before the world ends, and c) you — or at least I — also get screamed at by people who insist it's all a complete hoax. For those interested, I'm basically in the Matt Ridley "lukewarmer"camp. Now, back to my point. This whole "don't believe in science" canard amounts to ackamarackus bordering on flimflam. Even if you were a 100 percent "denier" of climate change, that wouldn't necessarily mean you don't "believe" in science. Indeed, many of the hardcore rejectionists I know are really, really, really into the science of climate change (tell the guys at CEI they don't believe in science, I dare you). They just tend to think the prevailing "consensus" is a politically and journalistically contrived sham. But even if you are a "denier" without being a science dork, that doesn't necessarily mean you don't believe in "science." Rejecting one scientific finding — whether accurate or inaccurate — doesn't mean you must reject all "science," never mind suggest that you don't "believe" in it. To be honest, I don't know what people who say "you don't believe in science" think they mean when they say it. Climate "deniers" don't insist the world is flat (though I have to assume flat-earthers have unconventional views on atmospheric science). They don't refuse to take medical treatment or prescribed drugs. They have faith that the internal-combustion engine is based on sound science. Etc. Often, when I stupidly engage people who sincerely claim that Republicans or conservatives don't "believe in science," I like to point out that many liberals and leftists have problems with science, too. People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs; people who deny that a fetus is a whole human; people who insist fetal pain is a myth; people who get outraged by claims that, say, men can't get pregnant. The list goes on and on. And yet, I don't argue that "Democrats don't believe in science." You know why? Because that would be stupid. Anyway, what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning. Apparently, researchers claim they can tell whether you're a homosexual or lesbian by using facial-recognition software. The results aren't perfect, they claim, but the computers apparently do better than humans at guessing which team you play for — or secretly want to play for but don't. Not surprisingly, gay-rights groups are angry! They don't like it! And, to be honest, I can understand why. But that's not the point. Both GLAAD and Human Rights Watch can't seem to decide whether the science is bad because it's fake and flawed or bad because it might work. A representative of GLAAD said something interesting: "Technology cannot identify someone's sexual orientation." Wait a second. Who says? Maybe this effort isn't up to snuff yet. But saying that technology can never identify someone's sexual orientation strikes me as pretty anti-sciencey, unless we're now back to saying sexual orientation is a choice, which opens a whole new kettle of fish. Anyway, I'm not sure what I think about this technology or its ramifications, but I have no problem with the notion that science will be able to figure out these things (and we'll probably find out that some things are wired, some are a choice, and most are a mix of the two). The point is that opponents don't like this science because of the political and social consequences of it. Maybe there's a parallel here with some "deniers" of climate change. But only those deniers get accused of not "believing" in science. READ MORE:How to Recognize 'Science Denial'Progressives Claim to Love Science, But What They Truly Love Is PowerClimate-Change Activists Are the Real Science Deniers— Jonah Goldberg is a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor at National Review.	False
824	Daily Mail	questionable_source	2017-06-01	Addressing these risks requires broad-based, practical solutions around the world.	''Importantly, as a result of the Paris agreement, both developed and developing countries are now working together to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions,' he said then, 'while recognizing differing national responsibilities, capacities and circumstances.	'It's important that the U.S. maintains its seat at the table about how to address the threat of climate change, which does require a global response,' Tillerson said then.	The declaration says that the Arctic 'is warming at more than twice the rate of the global average, resulting in widespread social, environmental, and economic impacts in the Arctic and worldwide.	'And how can it be an effective deal when it allows China and India, two of the major polluters, to keep increasing their pollution for another decade or two?	And that's what's happening here,' he said. <sep> 'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket, and you make them put it back in, they're not going to be happy. <sep> 	Ross v. Tillerson: Paris climate split in Trump's cabinet U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross on Thursday openly dismissed concerns raised by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson about President Donald Trump's decision to exit the Paris Climate Treaty. Tillerson, a former ExxonMobil CEO, told senators during his January confirmation hearing that the U.S. should stay engaged in global warming mitigation instead of walking away.'It's important that the U.S. maintains its seat at the table about how to address the threat of climate change, which does require a global response,' Tillerson said then. And he has fretted privately to confidants that withdrawing from the Paris deal could both undercut America's credibility on other multilateral agreements and impair relationships with foreign allies. The U.S. commerce chief told Fox News, just minutes after Trump blasted the climate agreement as a wealth-transfer gimmick, that Tillerson is wrong.'I have a great deal of respect for Secretary Tillerson. I happen to disagree strongly with him on this particular issue.'He added that 'I just don't see the connection, frankly,' between the Paris pullout and America's trustworthiness in future negotiations.'I don't agree with that at all. There's no reason to make one agreement [connect] with another,' Ross said, using the Trans-Pacific Partnership as Exhibit A.'The sky didn't fall when we pulled out of TPP and the sky certainly won't fall now that we've pulled out of the Paris Accord,' he said. 'I think the president is right.'Ross said much of the predicted backlash from other countries that drive global warming concerns would be rooted in economics, not science.'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket, and you make them put it back in, they're not going to be happy. And that's what's happening here,' he said.'This wasn't about climate. It was about U.S. money going to other countries.'Ross has firmly rooted himself in the train of thought that sees climate change agreements as thinly veiled pretexts for demanding global payouts from Washington and a free ride for its trade adversaries.'The president made clear we already are far ahead of other countries in terms of CO2 reduction,' Ross said, describing U.S. efforts to reduce carbon outputs.'And how can it be an effective deal when it allows China and India, two of the major polluters, to keep increasing their pollution for another decade or two?''That doesn't sound to me like a climate accord,' he said. 'It simply sounds like a transfer of wealth from the United States to other countries.'Tillerson, on the other hand, has aggressively pushed for greater recognition of America's obligation to lead the charge. Three weeks ago he signed an international document establishing the importance of the Paris Treaty in tackling climate change. The Fairbanks Declaration was adopted at the meeting by the members of the Arctic Council, whose members – like the U.S. – have territory above the Arctic Circle. The declaration says that the Arctic 'is warming at more than twice the rate of the global average, resulting in widespread social, environmental, and economic impacts in the Arctic and worldwide.'Last year, just one day before Trump was elected, Tillerson told a conference in Abu Dhabi that 'at ExxonMobil, we share the view that the risks of climate change are serious and warrant thoughtful action. Addressing these risks requires broad-based, practical solutions around the world.''Importantly, as a result of the Paris agreement, both developed and developing countries are now working together to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions,' he said then, 'while recognizing differing national responsibilities, capacities and circumstances.'Tillerson, who met with the president on Wednesday in a last-ditch effort to change his mind about pulling out of the Paris Accord, did not attend Thursday's Rose Garden announcement that America's participation was at an end.	True
314	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-10-01	They argue that Exxon and others should pony-up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.A judge dismissed lawsuits in Oakland and San Francisco, arguing that the U.S. Congress is only the governmental body responsible for enacting policies needed to mitigate global warming.	he City does not seek to impose liability on Defendants for their direct emissions of greenhouse gases and does not seek to restrain Defendants from engaging in their business operations," the city wrote in its complaint.	Judge John Keenan wrote in his opinion at the time that legislative branch was the appropriate arena to address global warming.	NYC's lawsuit does appear to suggest the intent is not to destroy but rather to mitigate harm."	Amron's admission will likely create challenges for the city's appeal, which is slated to begin in front of the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals soon.	"And really what we're trying to do is affect the bottom line- the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels," she said." <sep> Enviro Lawyer's Comments At NYC's Climate Week Could Sink City's Climate Crusade One of the attorneys heading New York City's climate litigation made comments in September that could seriously harm the city's mission to sue oil companies for contributing to global warming. <sep> New York City's climate lawsuits are ultimately designed to target the industry's financial bottom line, Susan Amron, the chief of the environmental law division of the New York City Law Department, said at a Sept. 26 panel discussion during the Climate Week NYC." <sep> 	Enviro Lawyer's Comments At NYC's Climate Week Could Sink City's Climate Crusade One of the attorneys heading New York City's climate litigation made comments in September that could seriously harm the city's mission to sue oil companies for contributing to global warming. New York City's climate lawsuits are ultimately designed to target the industry's financial bottom line, Susan Amron, the chief of the environmental law division of the New York City Law Department, said at a Sept. 26 panel discussion during the Climate Week NYC." o, we're not saying you can't use fossil fuels, that's a different part of the city's efforts," Amron said during the panel, noting also that the lawsuit is designed to impress on companies the need to "internalize the costs" fossil fuels impose on cities. She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later, telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industry's license to operate. "And really what we're trying to do is affect the bottom line- the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels," she said." e just acted, and I want to urge every city, every county, every state to do the same – divest. Divest from the fossil fuel industry," De Blasio told the Vermont Democrat at the time. "Let's help bring the death knell to this industry that's done so much harm." The lawsuit was dismissed in July a handful of months after De Blasio made his comment. Judge John Keenan wrote in his opinion at the time that legislative branch was the appropriate arena to address global warming. NYC's lawsuit does appear to suggest the intent is not to destroy but rather to mitigate harm." he City does not seek to impose liability on Defendants for their direct emissions of greenhouse gases and does not seek to restrain Defendants from engaging in their business operations," the city wrote in its complaint. Amron's admission will likely create challenges for the city's appeal, which is slated to begin in front of the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals soon. Neither Amron nor New York City's Law Department have responded to The Daily Caller News Foundation's request for an explanation about the lawsuit is designed to hammer the oil industry or for mitigation purposes. Other climate lawsuits across the country are similarly on the ropes. Cities in California, Colorado and Rhode Island have also filed similar lawsuits against energy producers over the past year. They argue that Exxon and others should pony-up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.A judge dismissed lawsuits in Oakland and San Francisco, arguing that the U.S. Congress is only the governmental body responsible for enacting policies needed to mitigate global warming. Manufacturers and conservative groups worry trial attorneys are behind the spat of climate litigation. Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings, called a contingency fee. (RELATED: Trial Lawyers Handling Cities' Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions)Hagens Berman stood to earn billions of dollars in contingency fees depending on the total winnings, from a favorable judgement against oil companies. The three cities claimed billions of dollars' worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	False
471	motherjones	left_bias	2018-11-01	Curbelo is one of the founders of the Climate Solutions Caucus, a bipartisan group in Congress ostensibly committed to fighting global warming, but restricted in practice by the reliance of its 45 Republican members on support from oil and gas firms.	Debbie Mucarsel-Powell is a climate champion, and the advocate South Floridians need as they watch sea-levels rise, see beaches destroyed by red tide, and live with the increasing threat of stronger, more powerful hurricanes."	The only catch?	The GOP Is Attacking a Democrat for Being Weak on Climate Change.	In one of South Florida's congressional districts, the party machine swept in to prop up a two-term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and "dirty coal money."		The GOP Is Attacking a Democrat for Being Weak on Climate Change. Wait, What?! In one of South Florida's congressional districts, the party machine swept in to prop up a two-term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and "dirty coal money." The only catch? The incumbent is Republican Rep. Carlos Curbelo and the party apparatus is the National Republican Congressional Committee, whose coffers this cycle contain nearly $7 million in donations from the oil and gas industry. The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediately national environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul, underscoring their support of Curbelo's Democratic challenger, Debbie Mucarsel-Powell." f Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is, he wouldn't be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this," said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement. "But Curbelo isn't a climate champion, he's a consistent vote against clean energy, against our public lands, and in favor of fossil fuels. Debbie Mucarsel-Powell is a climate champion, and the advocate South Floridians need as they watch sea-levels rise, see beaches destroyed by red tide, and live with the increasing threat of stronger, more powerful hurricanes." Curbelo has received more than $192,000 from energy and natural resource firms, in comparison to the less than $5,000 that Mucarsel-Powell has received from the same sector of donors, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.A spokesperson for Mucarsel-Powell's campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Curbelo is one of the founders of the Climate Solutions Caucus, a bipartisan group in Congress ostensibly committed to fighting global warming, but restricted in practice by the reliance of its 45 Republican members on support from oil and gas firms. While he broke ranks this summer to express his support for a carbon tax as a possible way to combat climate change, more than 30 of Curbelo's Republican colleagues on the caucus supported a symbolic measure that disavowed a carbon tax. Last December, he joined caucus members in a budget vote that would have opened up "1.5 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas drilling," Mother Jones reported at the time. The latest forecast from polling aggregator FiveThirtyEight has Curbelo trailing by less than one percentage point. The super PAC Climate Hawks Vote, which supports candidates with a progressive energy agenda, has been running ads against Curbelo that point to his history of receiving donations from fossil fuel companies, including Chevron and Exxon Mobil. This cycle, his No. 1 donor has been NextEra Energy, the Florida electric utility which is one of the largest purveyors of solar and wind energy projects in the country." e sure appreciate the help from the NRCC in calling out politicians who take dirty fossil fuel money and then obstruct progress on climate change, and are looking forward to similar NRCC ads attacking every single one of their own candidates," said RL Miller, Climate Hawks Vote's political director, in a statement. "We only wish the ad had noted how much Carlos Curbelo has taken from Big Oil."	False
873	RT	questionable_source	2017-09-12	However, there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers.	It notes, however, that there is little evidence to suggest that climate change will lead to a large increase in numbers of tropical storms or overall hurricanes in the Atlantic.	This is when atmospheric conditions are only marginally conducive, if at all, for tropical storm formation.	However, if the Saharan Air Layer, commonly known as Saharan dust, is in the vicinity at the time it can weaken tropical cyclones over the Atlantic.	The season lengths since 1995 are comparable to those during the last active era of the 1950s-1960s.A study published in Nature last year, led by James Elsner, a climate scientist and geographer at Florida State University, found that, while hurricanes were becoming more powerful, they were also becoming less frequent.		US hurricanes: Causes, trends & what the future holds (VIDEO) Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma, RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?The 2017 hurricane season has already seen Texas rocked by Harvey and Florida battered by Irma, and there are concerns that Jose, which is currently lashing the Caribbean, could hit the US east coast. While September is the most active month for hurricanes worldwide, the North Atlantic hurricane season is set to continue until November 30, raising the question – where are these monster storms originating?READ MORE: 4 dead as Hurricane Irma rocks Florida, leaving 3.5mn without power (PHOTOS, VIDEOS)Most of the major hurricanes that have impacted the US originated in Cape Verde – a nation on a volcanic archipelago off the northwest coast of Africa – according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The interaction between the hot dry air of the Sahara Desert and the cooler, more humid air from the Gulf of Guinea below creates high-altitude winds known as the African Easterly Jet. Blowing from east to west across Africa, the winds form clusters of thunderstorms once the waves of air have enough moisture, lift, and instability. The storms typically form every two to three days in a region near Cape Verde, but it is not until the period between summer and autumn that conditions become favorable for the development of tropical cyclones.'Tropical waves' of air interact with the warm equatorial water of the Atlantic as they head west, prompting columns of warm moist air to rise from the ocean and create an ideal environment to develop into a full-blown hurricane. However, if the Saharan Air Layer, commonly known as Saharan dust, is in the vicinity at the time it can weaken tropical cyclones over the Atlantic. This very dry air is most likely to have an impact in July and early August, Dr Gerry Bell, a hurricane climate specialist with NOAA told RT. com. This is when atmospheric conditions are only marginally conducive, if at all, for tropical storm formation. Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Andrew began life as tropical waves off the coast of west Africa. Irma was first spotted as a tropical disturbance off the Cape Verde Islands in late August, before becoming a hurricane over the Atlantic as it moved west. Cape Verde hurricanes are known for being particularly large and intense, however not all hurricanes hitting the US originate here: Harvey evolved from a tropical wave to the east of the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean Sea.A 2015 study examining the relationship between West African tropical disturbances and Atlantic hurricanes found that the larger an area covered by the disturbances was, the more likely it would develop into a hurricane only one to two weeks later. Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes?Hurricane seasons have generally been longer since 1995, according to Bell, which he says is consistent with a high activity era. The season lengths since 1995 are comparable to those during the last active era of the 1950s-1960s.A study published in Nature last year, led by James Elsner, a climate scientist and geographer at Florida State University, found that, while hurricanes were becoming more powerful, they were also becoming less frequent. However, there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers. An early draft of the government publication, the US Climate Science Special Report, published by the New York Times notes an "observed upward trend in North Atlantic hurricane activity since the 1970s." The NOAA Geophysical fluid dynamics laboratory, meanwhile, says it is too early to conclude that global warming has already had a "detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity." However, expects it to result in more intense tropical cyclones globally with substantially higher rainfall rates by the end of the 21st century. It notes, however, that there is little evidence to suggest that climate change will lead to a large increase in numbers of tropical storms or overall hurricanes in the Atlantic.	False
180	npr	left_center_bias	2019-02-08	And she says that could be what's needed to address a problem as daunting asclimate change.	The resolution has few details, but it aims to overhaul the U.S. economy andspread wealth more evenly.	Butexperts warn that changing the existing fleet of cars in the U.S. would be anextraordinary effort."	Environmental groups generally support the resolution."	And the resolution just doesn't quite get us there," says Nicole Ghio, seniorfossil fuel program manager at Friends of the Earth.	Much of the early criticism revolves around the scope of the plan, whichbackers say is big to match the challenge of the climate change problem." <sep> And to do that we have to tackle fossil fuels head-on. <sep> Scott Applewhite/APFor a nonbinding resolution with an uncertain future, ) is getting a lot of attention, along with a decidedly mixed reaction. <sep> Instead, itcalls for lots of spending to create, among other things, infrastructure andtransport that don't rely on fossil fuels. <sep> They've got to getan answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences," warns Ornstein. <sep> **J. Scott Applewhite/AP******hide caption********toggle caption****J. Scott Applewhite/APEnvironmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader NancyPelosi this past December. <sep> But some groups were disappointed the plan doesn't call for a complete end tousing fossil fuels." <sep> Given the scope and ambitious nature of the Green New Deal, it might betempting to criticize or dismiss activists supporting it. <sep> **"They need to do a whole lot more homework"**These days, ). <sep> "They have an energy and will toinnovation that is not only infectious, but inspiring." <sep> But this vision is for an extremely near-term future. <sep> It calls for a speedy shift in energy generation,from fossil fuels to renewable sources like wind and solar, and for "a fairand just transition for all communities and workers." <sep> Moniz, now CEO of Energy Futures Initiative, agrees that the U.S. needs to"pick up the pace" of its shift away from carbon, but he calls the decade-longtime frame "impractical." <sep> 	Despite Few Details And Much Doubt, The Green New Deal Generates Enthusiasm Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader NancyPelosi this past December. They plan more sit-ins to push for support of asweeping resolution to address climate change. **J. Scott Applewhite/AP******hide caption********toggle caption****J. Scott Applewhite/APEnvironmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader NancyPelosi this past December. They plan more sit-ins to push for support of asweeping resolution to address climate change.J. Scott Applewhite/APFor a nonbinding resolution with an uncertain future, ) is getting a lot of attention, along with a decidedly mixed reaction. Dozens of Democrats on Thursday )the measure, an ambitious framework for futurelegislation designed to eliminate the U.S. carbon footprint by 2030." Our energy future will not be found in the dark of a mine but in the light ofthe sun," said Sen. Ed Markey, D-Mass., as he announced the legislation onCapitol Hill. The resolution has few details, but it aims to overhaul the U.S. economy andspread wealth more evenly. It calls for a speedy shift in energy generation,from fossil fuels to renewable sources like wind and solar, and for "a fairand just transition for all communities and workers." Much of the early criticism revolves around the scope of the plan, whichbackers say is big to match the challenge of the climate change problem." All great American programs, everything from The Great Society to The NewDeal, started with a vision for our future," said co-sponsor Rep. AlexandriaOcasio-Cortez, D-N.Y. But this vision is for an extremely near-term future."I'm afraid I just cannot see how we could possibly go to zero carbon in a10-year time frame," former Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz tells NPR's _AllThings Considered_. Moniz, now CEO of Energy Futures Initiative, agrees that the U.S. needs to"pick up the pace" of its shift away from carbon, but he calls the decade-longtime frame "impractical." He worries it could turn off key constituenciesneeded in the climate effort, including labor unions, oil companies and thebusiness community.I'm afraid I just cannot see how we could possibly go to zero carbon in a10-year time frame. Ernest Moniz, former energy secretary and CEO of Energy Futures InitiativeThe Green New Deal doesn't even mention some of the usual ideas for addressingclimate change, such as a carbon tax or cap-and-trade program. Instead, itcalls for lots of spending to create, among other things, infrastructure andtransport that don't rely on fossil fuels. Environmental groups generally support the resolution." It is a breath of fresh air to see leaders in Congress discussing climatesolutions that rise to the scale of the challenge," said Aliya Haq, federalpolicy director for the Climate & Clean Energy Program at the NaturalResources Defense Council ). But some groups were disappointed the plan doesn't call for a complete end tousing fossil fuels." We have 12 years, according to science, if we're going to meet the challengeof the climate crisis. And to do that we have to tackle fossil fuels head-on. And the resolution just doesn't quite get us there," says Nicole Ghio, seniorfossil fuel program manager at Friends of the Earth. The oil industry says it's already reducing greenhouse gas emissions in theelectricity sector as coal plants switch to natural gas.**"They need to do a whole lot more homework"**These days, ). Green New Deal backers say they want more high-speed trains to make airlinetravel less necessary, and more electric cars and charging stations. Butexperts warn that changing the existing fleet of cars in the U.S. would be anextraordinary effort." There's 350 million liquid fuel cars on the road today in the United Statesand most Americans don't buy a new car except every decade," says Amy MyersJaffe, director of the program on Energy Security and Climate Change at theCouncil on Foreign Relations. Green New Deal backers say they also want to eventually phase out nuclearenergy, which currently supplies 20 percent of electricity in the U.S. TheNuclear Energy Institute ) that its electricity is carbon-free andshould be a part of any program addressing climate change. The proposal takes aim at methane from cows, too. Methane is an especiallypotent greenhouse gas, and cows produce a lot of it. But the beef industry isat a loss to respond because of the lack of details in the Green New Deal." They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysisbefore we can ever even really engage in this discussion," says Colin Woodall,senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's BeefAssociation. So far the plan's biggest success may be that it's energizing thousands ofyoung activists.A group called the Sunrise Movement held a ) around the country Tuesday. Jeremy Ornstein, 18, says he deferredgoing to college to work with the organization. Ornstein is among the Sunrise Movement organizers who plan three weeks ofactivism, including lobbying members of Congress to sign onto the Green NewDeal." And we're going to give our elected officials a deadline. They've got to getan answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences," warns Ornstein. He saysactivists around the country will occupy members' offices in what the groupcalls a "nationwide day of action." Given the scope and ambitious nature of the Green New Deal, it might betempting to criticize or dismiss activists supporting it. But Amy Myers Jaffehopes older, more experienced policymakers won't do that." We need not to discourage them," she says. "They have an energy and will toinnovation that is not only infectious, but inspiring." And she says that could be what's needed to address a problem as daunting asclimate change.	True
141	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-09-11	hile your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed, we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed," Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter, two representatives of the CO2 Coalition, wrote in a joint statement.	He has long argued that the planet and humans benefit from increased carbon dioxide emissions.	The CO2 Coalition, a right-wing think tank that Happer co-founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, confirmed his upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts."	The White House ultimately scrapped the plan, as E&E News reported in July.	The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer family, the billionaire megadonors who gave more than $15 million to Trump's 2016 campaign.		William Happer, Lover Of Carbon Dioxide, To Exit Trump Administration William Happer, the White House's most veteran climate change denier who tried unsuccessfully to establish an ad hoc panel to challenge near-universally accepted climate science, is leaving the Trump administration, according to reports from E&E News and Bloomberg.A retired Princeton physics professor with no expertise in climatology, Happer has served as President Donald Trump's deputy assistant for emerging technologies on the National Security Council since September 2018. He has long argued that the planet and humans benefit from increased carbon dioxide emissions. He has called climate science a "cult," claimed Earth is in the midst of a "CO2 famine," and said the "demonization of carbon dioxide is just like the demonization of the poor Jews under Hitler." Earlier this year, Trump tapped Happer to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting "adversarial scientific peer review" of climate science ― part of the administration's relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis. The White House ultimately scrapped the plan, as E&E News reported in July. News of Happer's departure comes one day after the resignation of his boss, national security adviser John Bolton. It was Bolton who recruited Happer to the National Security Council and backed his effort to create an anti-science panel, according to The New York Times. The CO2 Coalition, a right-wing think tank that Happer co-founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, confirmed his upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts." hile your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed, we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed," Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter, two representatives of the CO2 Coalition, wrote in a joint statement. The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer family, the billionaire megadonors who gave more than $15 million to Trump's 2016 campaign.	False
166	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-09-05	"And I think that's a problem with the lack of involvement from the Republican Party on this issue for the past 10 years."	""There are a lot of ways that we try to change our energy consumption and our pollution," she said.	But most of the responsibility lies with industry, not individuals, she said, adding "this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants us to talk about".	The event was perhaps the longest stretch of primetime television ever dedicated to climate change, held after the Democratic National Committee refused to sanction an official climate debate between candidates and amid unprecedented pressure from young activists and the Democratic voting base to tackle the climate crisis.	According to Yale University polling, the climate emergency is now the second most important voting issue for Democrats, behind healthcare.		Democratic 2020 hopefuls split over tackling climate crisis Democrats vying for president revealed a fundamental split over how aggressively the US should tackle climate change in a seven-hour town hall meeting on Wednesday. Bernie Sanders painted an apocalyptic future wreaked by the climate crisis and pledged to wage war on the fossil fuel industry. A high-energy Elizabeth Warren urged optimism for building a better America and the former vice-president Joe Biden, who has a pitched a more moderate proposal, said he would push other nations to recommit to stronger action. Sanders said without radical change the world will be uninhabitable. "The damage to the world will be irreparable," the Vermont senator said, adding that he is proposing "the largest, most comprehensive climate plan presented by any presidential candidate in the history of the United States". With many questions focused on what candidates would ask Americans to sacrifice, Elizabeth Warren pushed back on the framing. Asked if the government should tell people what kind of lightbulbs they can have, the Massachusetts senator quipped: "Oh come on, give me a break!""There are a lot of ways that we try to change our energy consumption and our pollution," she said. "Some of it is with lightbulbs, some of it is on straws, some of it – dang – is on cheeseburgers." But most of the responsibility lies with industry, not individuals, she said, adding "this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants us to talk about". Biden meanwhile pitched himself as the candidate who could lead negotiations with the diplomatic might of the US. He said his first step as president would be to call an international meeting to strengthen the Paris climate agreement." e should be organizing the world, demanding change, we need a diplomat-in-chief," Biden said. "Look what's happening now in the Amazon, what's going on? Nothing." Biden, who critics say has one of the less progressive climate plans, also got grilled on his plans to attend a fundraiser hosted by the founder of a natural gas company. He claimed the supporter is not a corporate executive. Where Biden would invest $1.7tn to fight climate change, Warren proposed $10tn and Sanders would put forward $16.3tn, setting them widely apart. The Democrats faced questions on whether their proposals would ban fracking for natural gas, prohibit exports of oil, gas and coal, change nutritional guidelines to limit meat consumption and transition to all electric vehicles. Their answers – and reactions to them – foreshadowed the fight ahead with conservatives and industry regardless of who becomes the next president. Donald Trump in a thread on Twitter charged that Democrat plans "will raise your energy bill and prices at the pump". The fossil fuels industry, through the oil trade group the American Petroleum Institute and the American Energy Alliance, said the plans would hurt poor Americans." onight, while American families worry about making ends meet, the Democrats running for president will be working hard to outbid each other on who can raise electricity and gasoline prices the highest, and the fastest," the alliance said in an emailed statement. The event was perhaps the longest stretch of primetime television ever dedicated to climate change, held after the Democratic National Committee refused to sanction an official climate debate between candidates and amid unprecedented pressure from young activists and the Democratic voting base to tackle the climate crisis. On Wednesday, a list of demands was released by a coalition of youth-led groups whose lodestar is Greta Thunberg, the Swedish teenager and activist who sparked a global wave of walkouts by school students over the climate crisis. Thunberg arrived in New York last week, after crossing the Atlantic in a solar-powered yacht for an upcoming UN climate summit. According to Yale University polling, the climate emergency is now the second most important voting issue for Democrats, behind healthcare. Among all voting Americans, nearly seven in 10 are worried about climate change, the highest ever recorded level of concern. There are strong bipartisan majorities in favour of setting pollution limits on industry, businesses, cars and trucks. Donald Trump, who is dismantling rules aimed at lowering planet-warming gases, attacked the Democratic candidates for proposing unrealistic, costly plans. "The Democrats' destructive "environmental" proposals will raise your energy bill and prices at the pump," the president wrote on Twitter. "Don't the Democrats care about fighting American poverty?"Trump's campaign quickly took the opportunity to post a clip of California senator Kamala Harris saying she would ban plastic straws alongside an ad for Trump-branded straws. But some young conservatives have raised concerns that Republican intransigence over the climate crisis will cost the party a generation of voters. Recent Newsy-Ipsos polling found that 59% of millennial and Generation Z Republicans support the Green New Deal." here are a lot of young people who are conservative and believe in climate change … They will not vote for a Republican if they're voting on this issue," said Benjamin Backer, founder of the American Conservation Coalition, which proposes action on the climate crisis. "And I think that's a problem with the lack of involvement from the Republican Party on this issue for the past 10 years."	False
880	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-09-21	In the geologic past, this type of behavior is associated with mass extinction."R-i-g-h-t.	"It's saying that, if left unchecked, the carbon cycle would move into a realm which would be no longer stable, and would behave in a way that would be difficult to predict.	So what you're saying, Dr Rothman, is that you're allowing plus or minus 10,000 years' leeway for this mass extinction which won't definitely happen but which "may" happen.	Taking this reasoning forward in time, Rothman predicts that, given the recent rise in carbon dioxide emissions over a relatively short timescale, a sixth extinction will depend on whether a critical amount of carbon is added to the oceans.	For carbon perturbations that take place over shorter timescales, the pace of carbon-cycle changes will not matter; instead, the size or magnitude of the change will determine the likelihood of an extinction event.		Delingpole: Mass Extinction Apocalypse Will Begin Around 2100 Claims MIT Professor According to Daniel Rothman, professor of geophysics in the MIT Department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences and co-director of MIT's Lorenz Center, we are fast approaching "thresholds of catastrophe" in the carbon cycle which make doom almost inevitable. In a paper published today in Science Advances, he proposes that mass extinction occurs if one of two thresholds are crossed: For changes in the carbon cycle that occur over long timescales, extinctions will follow if those changes occur at rates faster than global ecosystems can adapt. For carbon perturbations that take place over shorter timescales, the pace of carbon-cycle changes will not matter; instead, the size or magnitude of the change will determine the likelihood of an extinction event. Taking this reasoning forward in time, Rothman predicts that, given the recent rise in carbon dioxide emissions over a relatively short timescale, a sixth extinction will depend on whether a critical amount of carbon is added to the oceans. That amount, he calculates, is about 310 gigatons, which he estimates to be roughly equivalent to the amount of carbon that human activities will have added to the world's oceans by the year 2100. If we get a repeat of the Great Dying, 275 million years ago, what this means basically is that we are all going to die. Even you. But before you ring up your grandchildren and warn them to cancel the marquee they've booked for their 100th birthday celebrations, perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothman's cheery prediction. First, let's not forget it that it is flatly contradicted by the recent bombshell study suggesting that the effects of carbon dioxide on global warming have been overstated, that the computer models are running "too hot" and that we're not about to fry any time soon. Second, Rothman appears to have given himself so much margin for error as to render his doomsday projection meaningless. Does this mean that mass extinction will soon follow at the turn of the century? Rothman says it would take some time — about 10,000 years — for such ecological disasters to play out. However, he says that by 2100 the world may have tipped into "unknown territory." "This is not saying that disaster occurs the next day," Rothman says. "It's saying that, if left unchecked, the carbon cycle would move into a realm which would be no longer stable, and would behave in a way that would be difficult to predict. In the geologic past, this type of behavior is associated with mass extinction."R-i-g-h-t. So what you're saying, Dr Rothman, is that you're allowing plus or minus 10,000 years' leeway for this mass extinction which won't definitely happen but which "may" happen. Do you know what? Even though I'm not a professor of geophysics at MIT, I think even I could have come up with a scientific theory as rock-solid and testable as that one.	False
663	Daily Kos	left_bias	2017-04-03	The current IPCC targets do not adequately account for this feedback."	Consequently, an initial warming leads to more emission, leading to more warming and more emission.	policy briefing from the Woods Hole Research Center concludes that the IPCC doesn't adequately account for a methane warming feedbackWhile most attention has been given to carbon dioxide, it isn't the only greenhouse gas that scientists are worried about.	Recently, a policy briefing from the world-leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly-written summary.	It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self-reinforcing cycle takes over.	"Just as bad, the permafrost melting would continue after 2100 which would lock us into even more warming. <sep> Under this scenario, meeting a 2°C limit would be harder than anticipated. <sep> Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some." <sep> 	The Arctic Sea Ice Reduction since 1978 is 4 x10^6 km2  half of which is since 2016 Its true that not all the sea ice is gone yet, but much of what remains is thin enough that the light passing through it is allowing algae blooms. In many places it is cracked and subject to being broken up by storms which due to the extremes of heat and cold confronting eachother in that region have extremes of wind and wave. The Jacobshaven Glacier delivering 10% of the ice melt from Greenlands ice caps to the sea no longer flows at a glacial pace but rather is retreating at 10 km/yr with the rate of retreat increasing at an increasing rate just as with the sea ice. Instead of climate changing over millennia we are now seeing it change in ways we can observe with our own eyes in the course of a season. Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some." ramatic climate change is affecting both the Arctic and West Antarctica, yet the relative roles of local versus remote forcings in causing the changes are being debated. As global climate change continues to unfold, the two-way links between the tropics and the poles will play key determining factors in the climatic evolution of these sensitive regions. Thus, the time is ripe for a detailed look at how the tropics and the poles are coupled climatically. This special collection of the Journal of Climate on "Connecting the Tropics to Polar Regions" grew out of a mini-conference on the same topic that was held at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in June 2014:  of the sea ice from over the ESAS allows storms to churn up the bottom sediments speeding the release of Methane. Methane releases speed up the melting of the permafrost. The permafrost stores huge amounts of methane and fresh water. We have known this since 2007."  policy briefing from the Woods Hole Research Center concludes that the IPCC doesn't adequately account for a methane warming feedbackWhile most attention has been given to carbon dioxide, it isn't the only greenhouse gas that scientists are worried about. Carbon dioxide is the most important human-emitted greenhouse gas, but methane has also increased in the atmosphere and it adds to our concerns…. As the Earth warms, and the Arctic warms especially fast, the permafrost melts and soil decomposition accelerates. Consequently, an initial warming leads to more emission, leading to more warming and more emission. It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self-reinforcing cycle takes over. Recently, a policy briefing from the world-leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly-written summary. The briefing cites two recent papers (here and here) that study the so-called permafrost carbon feedback. One of these studies makes use of projections from the most recent IPCC report to estimate that up to 205 gigatons equivalent of carbon dioxide could be released due to melting permafrost. This would cause up to 0.5°C (up to 0.9°F) extra warming." Arctic scientists warn that the release of the methane from the ESAS could happen with the same surprising acceleration we see with glaciers, sea ice and the polar ice caps melting and have a huge effect on the melt rate of the permafrost. "Just as bad, the permafrost melting would continue after 2100 which would lock us into even more warming. Under this scenario, meeting a 2°C limit would be harder than anticipated. The current IPCC targets do not adequately account for this feedback." This is essentially what arctic scientists have been warning about for a decade now but pointing out that the time scale is no longer centuries but just years, and this is another reason why the IPCC is moving up their next report date	False
93	shareblue	left_bias	2019-06-24	Now farmers may also feel the brunt of the pain from not receiving information about how to cope with the changing environment.	The people, who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms, droughts, wildfires and heat waves."	The intent is to try to suppress a message — in this case, the increasing danger of human-caused climate change," said Michael Mann, a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University.	Published with permission of The American Independent.	"We stand for spreading the word about the science we do, especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people."		Trump officials keep getting caught hiding scientific reports they don't like The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is actively trying to muzzle and minimize scientific reports warning about the impacts of climate change, according to a Monday Politico report. The research Trump officials are trying to keep hidden could help farmers deal with the impact of climate change, such as how climate change affects the protein in wheat fed to cattle, or how changes in carbon dioxide levels alters the nutrients in rice. But rather than promote such peer-reviewed research by the USDA's Agricultural Research Service (ARS), the agency refuses to even issue press releases. In one instance about research on rice, the agency tried to dissuade a research partner, the University of Washington, from publicly discussing research." It was so unusual to have an agency basically say: 'Don't do a press release,'" Jeff Hodson, a communications director at the university, told Politico. "We stand for spreading the word about the science we do, especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people." Research from Politico showed the USDA did not attempt any promotion or press releases for 45 ARS studies that mentioned climate change." The intent is to try to suppress a message — in this case, the increasing danger of human-caused climate change," said Michael Mann, a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University. "Who loses out? The people, who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms, droughts, wildfires and heat waves." Anti-science censorship has become a hallmark of the Trump administration. In August 2018, a survey of 63,000 government scientists warned that "censorship has been a problem in the Trump administration from the beginning." When a multi-agency report on climate change was released in November 2018, Trump's EPA administrator, Andrew Wheeler, complained that it had too much science in it. As recently as June, the Trump administration prevented a scientist from writing about climate change in testimony before Congress because it didn't "jibe" with the administration's view on the topic. Trump has been clear that he does not believe in the sound science behind climate change, writing it off as a hoax. Trump said he didn't believe the multi-agency scientific report about climate change noted above. Trump has also chosen fellow climate change skeptics for the highest levels of his administration, including Sonny Perdue, who leads the Department of Agriculture. In May, career government economists accused Perdue and his agency of retaliating against them for their reports showing that Trump's tax and farm subsidy policies are hurting the very rural voters he promised to help. Now farmers may also feel the brunt of the pain from not receiving information about how to cope with the changing environment. Perdue refused to comment on this latest report that his agency is suppressing scientific research." If you're taking a certain block of research and not communicating it, it defeats the purpose of why USDA does the research in the first place," Robert Bonnie, who worked at USDA during President Obama's administration, told Politico. Rather than embrace science, the Trump administration is hurting farmers in order to cling to an anti-science political position. Published with permission of The American Independent.	False
657	NewsBusters	right_bias	2017-09-12	"If you write a proposal and it talks about fixing some infrastructure because of climate change, it's not going anywhere," Mr. Kirtman said.	"You spend an awful lot of effort word-searching your document for the words 'climate' and 'change.'	The text box: "Concerns that the U.S. is dodging questions on global warming."	It wasn't just global warming.	People, they note, are finally paying attention.	Ben Kirtman, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, said he believes failing to discuss climate change hurts Florida and the entire country. <sep> Chief, Discussing Climate After Storms Is 'Insensitive.'" <sep> Mr. Trump has given Congress, which has failed to pass immigration overhaul for the last decade, six months to enact legislation to resolve the status of about 800,000 people affected by his decision. <sep> But in Washington, where science is increasingly political, the fact that oceans and atmosphere are warming and that the heat is propelling storms into superstorms has become as sensitive as talking about gun control in the wake of a mass shooting. <sep> 	NY Times Uses Pope, Storm to Plug Climate Change In the wake of Hurricane Irma, the New York Times advanced the "climate change" agenda from every angle in Tuesday's edition. First up, the paper featured more odd respect for religion from its colorful left-wing reporter Jason Horowitz, in "Pope, in the Air, Puts Foot Down on Climate Change Denial and DACA Reversal." The text box: "The pontiff says pro-life believers must defend the unity of the family." And another Times reporter stuck up for the tasteless global warming warriors using Hurricane Irma to forward "climate change."A paper loathe to credit Christianity for pro-life or traditional marriage views readily broadcasts the left-wing views of Pope Francis and in particular his bashing of Donald Trump:As he flew near Caribbean islands devastated by Hurricane Irma on his way back to the Vatican from Colombia on Sunday, Pope Francis said that political leaders and others who denied climate change reminded him of a passage from the psalms about man's stubbornness. "Man is stupid, the Bible said," he said. "It's like that, when you don't want to see, you don't see." In a typically wide-ranging news conference that included his questioning of United States President Donald J. Trump's commitment to issues of life because of his plan to strip undocumented immigrant children of protections from deportation, the pope urged those who denied climate change to consult scientists who had clearly determined it was real and that humanity would "go down" if global warming was not recognized and addressed. "Then," he said, "decide and history will judge the decisions." During Mr. Trump's May visit to the Vatican, the pope gave him a copy of his 2015 encyclical letter, "Laudato Si," which called for a human response to global warming, and top Vatican officials appealed to the president not to withdraw from the landmark Paris climate accord. Weeks later, Mr. Trump pulled out of the agreement. It wasn't just global warming. Horowitz also used Pope Francis to criticize Trump's move to end DACA:On the flight, the pope nevertheless appealed again to Mr. Trump, this time on his decision to end President Obama's Deferred Action for Children Program, known as DACA. The program allows children brought illegally to the United States to stay without fear of deportation. Mr. Trump has given Congress, which has failed to pass immigration overhaul for the last decade, six months to enact legislation to resolve the status of about 800,000 people affected by his decision. When the Times doesn't challenge a "pro-life" message, better read closely."  hope they rethink it a bit," he said. "Because I heard the U.S. president speak. He presents himself as a man who is pro-life. If he is a good pro-life believer he must understand that family is the cradle of life and one must defend its unity," said Francis, who in the past has said that advocates, like Mr. Trump, of a wall to keep out migrants on the Mexican border were "not Christian." Horowitz showed himself not so fond of more conservative Catholics in an August report for the Times in which he made common cause with a piece making the rounds of Catholic intellectual circles singling out "ultraconservative" Trump-supporting conservatives as dangerous: "From the Vatican, a Warning Shot for Hard-Line Catholics in the U.S." Meanwhile, reporter Lisa Friedman on Tuesday used a comment from the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to stick up for the tasteless global warming warriors now using the tragedy of Hurricane Irma to forward their environmental agenda, in "For E.P.A. Chief, Discussing Climate After Storms Is 'Insensitive.'" The text box: "Concerns that the U.S. is dodging questions on global warming." Friedman found a Republican to mouth concern over climate change and promptly teed him up in paragraph two, while instantly identifying her by party (something the paper consistently fails to do with Democrats in trouble):Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, says it is insensitive to discuss climate change in the midst of deadly storms. Tomás Regalado, the Republican mayor of Miami whose citizens raced to evacuate before Hurricane Irma, says if not now, when? For scientists, drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake. But in Washington, where science is increasingly political, the fact that oceans and atmosphere are warming and that the heat is propelling storms into superstorms has become as sensitive as talking about gun control in the wake of a mass shooting. Ben Kirtman, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, said he believes failing to discuss climate change hurts Florida and the entire country. Dr. Kirtman and Dr. Berry are among a group of Florida scientists who confronted Governor Rick Scott in recent years for his refusal to acknowledge that human-made greenhouse gases are driving climate change. Last year they wrote a letter to then-candidate Donald J. Trump asking for a meeting to discuss the consequences of climate change in Florida. They said the Trump campaign never responded. In Florida, scientists say, Gov. Scott's aversion to even the words "climate change" have prompted scientists to self-censor their work. "If you write a proposal and it talks about fixing some infrastructure because of climate change, it's not going anywhere," Mr. Kirtman said. "You spend an awful lot of effort word-searching your document for the words 'climate' and 'change.' It's silliness." That is one reason many scientists maintain it is critical to use the megaphone that the dual devastation of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma has provided. People, they note, are finally paying attention. Friedman cited an obscure news source to make her case of benighted Republicans ignoring the obvious facts of climate change:	False
322	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-11-27	"Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	We hope our bipartisan bill will spur action on climate change before it's too late."	Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one-third over a 10-year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050, compared to 2015 emission levels.	(RELATED: A Growing Number Of Democrats Are Signing On To Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal)Republicans Fitzpatrick and Rooney, both members of the Climate Solutions Caucus, survived their re-elections — and both will continue to work with Democrats on various climate change bills in the next legislative session.	Much like the new bipartisan bill, Curbelo's was doomed to fail from the beginning — and he endured attack ads from the right for even introducing it.		House Republicans Back Another Carbon Tax Bill That's Bound To Fail Two Republican House members have signed their name onto bipartisan carbon tax legislation, a bill that stands virtually zero chance of passing during the lame duck session. GOP Reps. Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania and Francis Rooney of Florida are to introduce a carbon tax bill on Tuesday alongside Florida Democratic Rep. Ted Deutch. The Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act, if passed, would slap a $15-per-metric-ton carbon fee on fossil fuel industries. While the bill has little chance of passing, it is intended to spark a debate over carbon pricing as the Democratic Party prepares to take over the lower chamber of Congress." ore than a dozen federal agencies just warned us that if we don't take dramatic action, climate change will knock 10 percent off of our GDP by the end of this century," Deutch, the bill's Democratic co-sponsor, stated to Bloomberg Environment. "Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters. We hope our bipartisan bill will spur action on climate change before it's too late." That $15-per-metric-ton fee would increase by $10 every year until reaching certain carbon emission targets. In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices, revenue from the tax would be given back out to households. Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one-third over a 10-year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050, compared to 2015 emission levels. The Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act is notable in that it's the first bipartisan carbon tax bill introduced in Congress in about 10 years. However, given the GOP will control the Senate and White House for at least the next two years, it's passage appears quite bleak. The bill comes not long after an outgoing Republican lawmaker, Rep. Carlos Curbelo, introduced a carbon tax bill of his own this year. Cureblo's bill was more stringent, calling for a $24-per-ton fee on carbon. Much like the new bipartisan bill, Curbelo's was doomed to fail from the beginning — and he endured attack ads from the right for even introducing it. Long considered one of the most at-risk Republicans heading into Election Day, Curbelo went on to lose his Miami area House seat to a Democratic challenger. Curbelo was one among many moderate Republicans on the Climate Solutions Caucus who lost re-election. Altogether, 13 GOP members of the bipartisan climate group lost their elections, and numerous others chose to retire. (RELATED: A Growing Number Of Democrats Are Signing On To Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal)Republicans Fitzpatrick and Rooney, both members of the Climate Solutions Caucus, survived their re-elections — and both will continue to work with Democrats on various climate change bills in the next legislative session. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
589	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-05-04	Earthjustice sued to stop the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) decision to indefinitely stay the implementation of wastewater discharge rules for coal plants.	"The permanent protections President Obama established for the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans were won with years of research, lobbying and organizing."	The same day, Earthjustice and the Center for Biological Diversity (CBD) filed suits to challenge the administration.	The group filed at least two lawsuits in April challenging Trump's delaying energy efficiency standards for appliances and the administration's refusal to ban certain pesticides.	y now it's clear there is no legitimate public interest in further expanding risk to our oceans in pursuit of fossil fuels that we don't need," Lawrence said.		Environmentalists Flood The Courts With Lawsuits To Stop Trump's Agenda At least eighteen environmental groups filed four lawsuits in one day against the Trump administration, including suits to keep in place Obama-era environmental policies. Environmentalists filed their suit Wednesday. They are living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office — namely, to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies. These include orders that stop offshore drilling and force the closure of coal plants. The League of Conservation Voters (LCV) led eight other groups in a legal challenge of Trump's recent executive order to reopen large swaths of Arctic seas to offshore drilling. LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election." ever in LCV's history have we taken this step," Gene Karpinski, LCV's president, said in a statement. "The permanent protections President Obama established for the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans were won with years of research, lobbying and organizing." The suit argues Obama used his authority Section 12(a) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to put most Arctic waters off-limits to development. The act does not allow future presidents to undo placing waters off-limits, activists argue. The same day, Earthjustice and the Center for Biological Diversity (CBD) filed suits to challenge the administration. Earthjustice sued to stop the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) decision to indefinitely stay the implementation of wastewater discharge rules for coal plants. CBD filed suit against EPA for not finalizing deadlines for the cities of Washington, D.C. and Philadelphia to meet ozone standards. CBD also sued for Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt's emails and schedule. Earthjustice and CBD joined LCV's suit against Trump's EPA. So far, CBD has filed 15 lawsuits against the administration, something which the activist group publicly brags about. CBD famously sued the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to stop the construction of a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. CBD wants the court to force DHS to conduct a "programmatic environmental impact statement" on border enforcement operations. Trump can expect more lawsuits as he continues to rollback Obama-era policies. Environmentalists spent years lobbying and campaigning to get such policies in place. The Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), for example, played a pivotal role in crafting the Clean Power Plan, which became Obama's signature global warming policy. But Trump ordered EPA to review the Clean Power Plan, asking the agency to see if it needed to be modified or rescinded. NRDC and other environmental groups were already locked in legal battles to keep the power plant rule from being overturned. NRDC has filed its fair share of lawsuits against Trump as well. They filed two lawsuits against the administration in February to keep the EPA from withdrawing a mercury rule and to oppose an executive order requiring agencies to repeal two regulations for every new one imposed. In March, NRDC and other environmentalists sued to block the Keystone XL oil pipeline from being built. They also tried to intervene in a lawsuit against a national ocean monument Obama created. The group filed at least two lawsuits in April challenging Trump's delaying energy efficiency standards for appliances and the administration's refusal to ban certain pesticides. NRDC attorneys are also representing LCV and others in the suit to keep Arctic waters off-limits to drilling." ere President Trump able to get away with this, the country would lose an important tool for protecting its vital interest in clean and vibrant oceans and coasts," Niel Lawrence, NRDC's Alaska director, told Bloomberg." y now it's clear there is no legitimate public interest in further expanding risk to our oceans in pursuit of fossil fuels that we don't need," Lawrence said. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	True
271	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-04	racking is a danger to our water supply.	It's a danger to the air we breathe.	"They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe.	racking and mountaintop removal coal mining are two particularly harmful methods used to extract fossil fuels," his plan states.	o.		Bernie Sanders Calls on Democrat Candidates to Support 'Full Fracking Ban' "Any proposal to avert the climate crisis must include a full fracking ban on public and private lands," Sanders said Wednesday, ahead of CNN's seven-hour climate change town hall. He continued, calling the concept of safe fracking "pure fiction" and decrying the release of "methane from natural gas" as a major contributing factor to climate change." racking is a danger to our water supply. It's a danger to the air we breathe. It causes earthquakes. It's highly explosive. Safe fracking is, like clean coal, pure fiction," Sanders continued." ut, most importantly, methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster," he added. "When we are in the White House, we will end the era of fossil fuels, and that includes fracking":Sanders' call to ban fracking is not necessarily new. The Vermont senator promised in March that his administration would "ban fracking nationwide and rapidly move to renewable energy":Sanders also called for a full ban on fracking as part of his $16 trillion Green New Deal proposal released last month." racking and mountaintop removal coal mining are two particularly harmful methods used to extract fossil fuels," his plan states. "They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe. They must be immediately banned." Former Vice President Joe Biden (D) has also expressed a desire to ban fracking, telling CNN's Dana Bash that his administration would work to eliminate it." ust to clarify, would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking, in a Biden administration," Bash asked during July's Democrat debate in Detroit." o. We would work it out. We would make sure it's eliminated, and no more subsidies for either one of those, either — any fossil fuel," Biden said:Ten Democrat candidates – including Biden and Sanders – will participate in the CNN-hosted climate change town hall Wednesday evening.	True
75	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-01-03	The deal shall: "ensure a 'just transition' for all workers, low-income communities, communities of color, indigenous communities, rural and urban communities and the front-line communities most affected by climate change, pollution and other environmental harm including by ensuring that local implementation of the transition is led from the community level."	Editor's Note: This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	More, Ocasio-Cortez sees this plan is being a vehicle through which social equality might finally realized through the use of reparations to right historical injustices.	In addition to achieving its goal of "meeting 100% of national power demand through renewable sources," the document also repeatedly states the Green New Deal will advance non-environmental projects, such as, "social, economic, racial, regional and gender-based justice."	The final Green New Deal will "mitigate deeply entrenched racial, regional and gender-based inequalities in income and wealth (including, without limitation, ensuring that federal and other investment will be equitably distributed to historically impoverished, low income, deindustrialized or other marginalized communities in such a way that builds wealth and ownership at the community level)."	Ocasio-Cortez's plan further claims it will (virtually) eliminate poverty: "The Plan for a Green New Deal (and the draft legislation) shall recognize that a national, industrial, economic mobilization of this scope and scale is a historic opportunity to virtually eliminate poverty in the United States and to make prosperity, wealth and economic security available to everyone participating in the transformation." <sep> The text of the rule change lays out the committee's jurisdiction and required areas of action. <sep> 	Gender-based justice, Reparations, Universal income, Medicare for All... Incoming New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez brings with her a massive online following, influence she says she'll deploy only in support of candidates and politicians who support her plan for a "Green New Deal." The Green New Deal" is something Ocasio-Cortez invokes frequently in media appearances and rallies. So what's actually in it?Her office recently released the text of a proposed House rules change outlining the plan. The proposed rule change for the upcoming 116th Congress would require the creation of a "Select Committee for a Green Deal" that would be responsible for creating the plan by January 1, 2020, with corresponding draft legislation soon after. The text of the rule change lays out the committee's jurisdiction and required areas of action. Its scope and mandate for legislative authority amounts to a radical grant of power to Washington over Americans' lives, homes, businesses, travel, banking, and more. Early on, under "Jurisdiction," the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision: "The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national, industrial, economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality." In addition to achieving its goal of "meeting 100% of national power demand through renewable sources," the document also repeatedly states the Green New Deal will advance non-environmental projects, such as, "social, economic, racial, regional and gender-based justice." Ocasio-Cortez's plan further claims it will (virtually) eliminate poverty: "The Plan for a Green New Deal (and the draft legislation) shall recognize that a national, industrial, economic mobilization of this scope and scale is a historic opportunity to virtually eliminate poverty in the United States and to make prosperity, wealth and economic security available to everyone participating in the transformation." More specifically, Ocasio-Cortez's plan calls for, within 10 years, a series of lofty overhauls of American life [emphasis added]:Between its calls for "upgrading" homes and overhauling travel, public infrastructure, and even the way Americans consume electricity, the plan leaves virtually no facet of everyday life untouched. Think of how often you don't use electricity to imagine how much of your average day the plan wouldn't impact. The proposed committee would also have seemingly total oversight of American industry, with a mandate for pushing union membership. Under "Scope of the Plan," a section on labor states the committee's final plan shall: "Require strong enforcement of labor, workplace safety, and wage standards that recognize the rights of workers to organize and unionize free of coercion, intimidation, and harassment, and creation of meaningful, quality, career employment." Later in the document, Ocasio Cortez's plan imagines creating a national jobs force to help people participate in this "transition." The Green New Deal, it says, shall "provide all members of our society, across all regions and all communities, the opportunity, training and education to be a full and equal participant in the transition, including through a job guarantee program to assure a living wage job to every person who wants one." The plan also imagines creating governmental support for "transitioning" minority communities. The deal shall: "ensure a 'just transition' for all workers, low-income communities, communities of color, indigenous communities, rural and urban communities and the front-line communities most affected by climate change, pollution and other environmental harm including by ensuring that local implementation of the transition is led from the community level." More, Ocasio-Cortez sees this plan is being a vehicle through which social equality might finally realized through the use of reparations to right historical injustices. The final Green New Deal will "mitigate deeply entrenched racial, regional and gender-based inequalities in income and wealth (including, without limitation, ensuring that federal and other investment will be equitably distributed to historically impoverished, low income, deindustrialized or other marginalized communities in such a way that builds wealth and ownership at the community level)." And if that weren't enough to ensure that Democratic Socialism could be fully realized in America, the plan includes failsafe in the form of universal income and Medicare for All: The plan, it says, shall "include additional measures such as basic income programs, universal health care programs and any others as the select committee may deem appropriate to promote economic security, labor market flexibility and entrepreneurism." Ocasio-Cortez clarifies that this plan would not only need to be financed by taxpayers, but also the Federal Reserve and other institutions the government can create. The end of the document contains a Q&A, one of which deals with the plan's funding: "The Federal Reserve can extend credit to power these projects and investments, new public banks can be created (as in WWII) to extend credit and a combination of various taxation tools (including taxes on carbon and other emissions and progressive wealth taxes) can be employed." Ocasio-Cortez may not be in Congress yet, but she already has a plan to remake the way Americans drive, commute, live, work, and even use the financial system. Let there be little doubt how she aspires to wield power in Washington. Editor's Note: This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	False
69	foxnews	right_bias	2019-04-29	It's a challenging issue."	"It's also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry, that have jobs; communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism.	get the idea of taking a lead on this issue and I think many companies agree with this," she said.	"The governor needs to make a plan to transition the state away from oil and gas toward renewables, but also transition workers into jobs in that sector."	But as Newsom's term in Sacramento approaches its fifth month, many of these groups are losing patience as the governor tries to balance a clean energy agenda with the demands of an industry that supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in a state with around 26 million vehicles on the road."	"Newsom understands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow." <sep> "But at what cost is this being done, especially when nobody else is doing anything." <sep> At the very least, green groups are hoping that Newsom – who campaigned last year on a promise to end controversial extraction methods like fracking and who has been a key figure in the fight to curtail climate change – will create buffer zones for any new oil and gas wells near schools, hospitals and residential neighborhoods and also monitor for dangerous emissions from plugged or abandoned wells." <sep> Newsom, however, told the "Los Angeles Times" that despite his commitment to renewable energies, it would be impossible to completely stop California's reliance on fossil fuels at the moment." <sep> 	California Gov. Newsom facing new pressure from environmental groups to block drilling, fracking In the next few weeks, California Gov. Gavin Newsom is slated to announce his administration's energy policy strategy – and many environmental groups there are hoping it will include plans to end oil and gas drilling in the nation's most populous state and phase out all fossil fuel extraction. At the very least, green groups are hoping that Newsom – who campaigned last year on a promise to end controversial extraction methods like fracking and who has been a key figure in the fight to curtail climate change – will create buffer zones for any new oil and gas wells near schools, hospitals and residential neighborhoods and also monitor for dangerous emissions from plugged or abandoned wells."  consider to remain optimistic given how he expressed interest in issues that [former California Gov. Jerry] Brown did not address," Kathryn Phillips, the director of the Sierra Club California, told Fox News. "The governor needs to make a plan to transition the state away from oil and gas toward renewables, but also transition workers into jobs in that sector." But as Newsom's term in Sacramento approaches its fifth month, many of these groups are losing patience as the governor tries to balance a clean energy agenda with the demands of an industry that supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in a state with around 26 million vehicles on the road." 'm taking a very pragmatic look at it, in scoping this," Newsom told The Los Angeles Times recently. "It's also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry, that have jobs; communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism. It's a challenging issue." Newsom must now weigh the support he received from environmental groups while on the campaign trail – and his own assurances that he wants California to be powered 100 percent by renewable energy in the near future – with any moves that could negatively affect a billion-dollar industry in a state that has the world's fifth largest economy. Even with California's oil production being in decline for years, the state was the nation's fifth-largest domestic crude oil producer in 2017, according to figures compiled by the federal government." is intentions are very pragmatic," Catherine Reheis-Boyd, the president of the Western States Petroleum Association, told Fox News. "Newsom understands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow." One practice that environmental groups are hoping Newsom will clamp down on more than his predecessor is hydraulic fracturing. Known more popularly as fracking, it is a method of oil and gas extraction in which large volumes of high-pressure water are shot into the ground. Fracking has come under intense scrutiny in recent years amid widespread concerns over both the public health and environmental risks it poses. While Brown approved restrictions on the practice back in 2013, he was lambasted by green groups for not banning fracking outright amid his argument that it could provide economic opportunities to some Californians. On the campaign trail last year Newsom was adamantly opposed to fracking, but has so far remained quiet about the practice – along with the possibility of banning offshore drilling in the state - when discussing his energy agenda. Newsom, however, told the "Los Angeles Times" that despite his commitment to renewable energies, it would be impossible to completely stop California's reliance on fossil fuels at the moment." ne cannot just turn off the switch. One cannot just immediately abut against a century of practice and policy," Newsom said. Still California is one of the nation's leaders in pushing forth a green energy agenda. Despite the criticism leveled against him for waffling on clamping down on the fossil fuel industry, Brown last year signed two pieces of legislation that effectively banned the construction of any new offshore oil and gas pipelines in the state's waters and thwarted a Trump administration plan to open nearly 1.7 billion acres of coastal waters to drilling. While California cannot directly block oil and gas drilling off its coast, the legislation that Brown signed aims to drive up the operating costs of these operations enough to make the effort unprofitable. The law does this by blocking state land managers from permitting the construction of new pipelines, piers, wharves or other infrastructure projects necessary to bring oil and gas from offshore drilling sites to land." alifornia has positioned itself as the center of the Trump resistance," Jessica Levinson, a clinical law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, told Fox News. "It's bloody combat." California banned offshore drilling in state waters out to three miles back in 1994 and there haven't been any new platforms built in the last 30 years. But California is the nation's third-largest oil-producing state, behind Texas and North Dakota, and there are still 32 offshore oil platforms and artificial islands in federal and state waters off the coasts of Santa Barbara, Ventura, Los Angeles and Orange Counties. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPCalifornia may be leading the nation in curbing its reliance on fossil fuels and many environmental activists believe Newsom will take even bolder steps than his predecessor, energy industry insiders like Reheis-Boyd question what the point is when other states – and nations – are not doing their part as well."  get the idea of taking a lead on this issue and I think many companies agree with this," she said. "But at what cost is this being done, especially when nobody else is doing anything."	True
333	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-12-09	But while the report seeks to link wildfire to climate change, it glosses over the real reason fires have grown in intensity and size: the 30 years of increased environmental restrictions on logging, brush clearance and preventive burns that caused a massive and dangerous fuel buildup—a problem that was predicted years ago and has nothing to do with global warming.	Two problems, though: the authors assume the worst-case and least likely scenario, with average temperatures more than 14 degrees Fahrenheit hotter by 2100; and they derive two-thirds of their economic losses estimate by claiming a large amount of premature deaths due to the hotter temperatures.	Those who see climate change as a dire and urgent threat have some work to do to convince voters in the Western democracies to give up their way of life in exchange for unspecified benefits of a slightly less warm world—and that's assuming China, India and over a billion people in Africa can be convinced not to try to pull themselves out of poverty—something that may only be done with greater use of fossil fuels.	An example of the former can be seen in the new National Climate Assessment.	The bottom line is this: economic freedom—the kind you get with a large middle class—leads to prosperity, economic growth, and technological innovation.	Thus, one well-worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live, where to live, and how to work—all of the good of the planet, of course—is the alarmist study, making copious use of lies of omission and commission. <sep> 	America Next? The City of Lights, Paris, has been illuminated in recent days by cars set alight by thousands of protesting "Yellow Vests"—largely middle class people who earn their living by driving or who commute to get to work. The cause of their ire is a scheduled 25 cents-per-gallon increase in gas taxes, and about 10 cents on diesel, to fight climate change. French President Macron, deeply unpopular, just reversed course on the new green tax—Parisians are already paying about $7.06 per gallon for gasoline, almost half of that in taxes. If Paris streets burned over a proposed 25 cents per gallon climate change tax, imagine the global conflagration over a $49 per gallon tax. That's what a United Nations special climate report calls for in 12 years, with a carbon tax of $5,500 per ton—equal to $49 per gallon of gasoline or diesel. That's about 100 times today's average state and federal motor fuels tax. By 2100, the U.N. estimates that a carbon tax of $27,000 per ton is needed—$240 per gallon—to limit global warming to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius. Of course, that isn't going to happen. The economic wreckage of such a punitive tax would plunge the global economy into a permanent depression—and that's assuming politicians could enact such huge tax increases over the will of their voters. Keep in mind that the unrest in France was triggered by a looming 25-cent hike, which is a little less than 10% more in taxes than French drivers already pay. To meet the $49 per gallon tax hike recommended by the U.N., fuel taxes in France would have to go up 17-fold. The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed. They don't earn enough to be part of the elite unconcerned with fuel taxes, but they work hard enough that they don't qualify for the generous welfare benefits handed out to the nation's poor and to newly arrived immigrants from Africa and the Middle East. Here in America, Republicans in Congress passed a resolution against carbon taxes over the summer while Democrats embraced the concept in their party platform. Some incoming members of the new Democratic majority in the House are calling to create a select committee to map out a "Green New Deal" that would move the U.S. toward using 100% renewable energy for the electric grid while guaranteeing jobs for everyone. In the meantime, opinion polls indicate that 54% of Americans do not believe global warming will cause major problems within their lifetimes. So how do climate activists get their way? Some openly talk of imposing authoritarian governance to override democratic institutions. Former NASA climate researcher James Hansen suggested in 2007 that "the democratic process does not work." Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of "deniers." Those who see climate change as a dire and urgent threat have some work to do to convince voters in the Western democracies to give up their way of life in exchange for unspecified benefits of a slightly less warm world—and that's assuming China, India and over a billion people in Africa can be convinced not to try to pull themselves out of poverty—something that may only be done with greater use of fossil fuels. Thus, one well-worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live, where to live, and how to work—all of the good of the planet, of course—is the alarmist study, making copious use of lies of omission and commission. An example of the former can be seen in the new National Climate Assessment. The report's first chapter lists recent natural disasters, citing this summer's deadly Carr Fire in California as an example. But while the report seeks to link wildfire to climate change, it glosses over the real reason fires have grown in intensity and size: the 30 years of increased environmental restrictions on logging, brush clearance and preventive burns that caused a massive and dangerous fuel buildup—a problem that was predicted years ago and has nothing to do with global warming. The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that they're supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president: Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg. Here we're told that the U.S. economy will take a 10% hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions. Two problems, though: the authors assume the worst-case and least likely scenario, with average temperatures more than 14 degrees Fahrenheit hotter by 2100; and they derive two-thirds of their economic losses estimate by claiming a large amount of premature deaths due to the hotter temperatures. The latter claim is highly problematic as death rates in regions far hotter than in the U.S. aren't meaningfully different, when accounting for the standard of living. Why? People adapt rather easily. This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN, but it is far from sound science or even good economics. The bottom line is this: economic freedom—the kind you get with a large middle class—leads to prosperity, economic growth, and technological innovation. And it's these three things: wealth, growth and technology, which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth, not $240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	False
327	theblaze	right_bias	2018-09-21	However, the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence."	Some have said Florence was made worse because of warmer ocean waters caused by climate change, but that's also false.	Even the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, one of the most notorious defenders of the theory humans are headed for a climate catastrophe, admitted in 2012 there "is low confidence in long-term changes in tropical cyclone activity, after accounting for past changes in observing capabilities.	Commentary: No, Donald Trump didn't cause or worsen Hurricane Florence — here's the proof Accompanying every hurricane are numerous stories in mainstream media outlets suggesting disaster could have been averted had American elected officials done more to stop global warming, which left-wing pundits continue to insist is almost entirely being caused by humans' carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions.	And if all that weren't enough, it's absolutely absurd to say Trump is any way responsible for global warming because even if it is true humans are the primary cause of warming, carbon dioxide emissions actually dropped in Trump's first two years in office.		Commentary: No, Donald Trump didn't cause or worsen Hurricane Florence — here's the proof Accompanying every hurricane are numerous stories in mainstream media outlets suggesting disaster could have been averted had American elected officials done more to stop global warming, which left-wing pundits continue to insist is almost entirely being caused by humans' carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. In article after article, pundits have claimed Republicans, especially President Donald Trump, are in some way responsible for Hurricane Florence. The Washington Post's editorial board — in an article titled "Yes, you can blame President Trump for Hurricane Florence" — even went so far as to say Trump was "complicit" for the storm. This is total nonsense. Not only are there countless good reasons to question the extent to which humans are contributing to global warming, there's no evidence indicating hurricanes have become significantly worse as a result of global warming. As Roy Spencer, Ph.D., an acclaimed climate scientist who previously worked for NASA, recently stated, "The fact that there has been no long-term change in global hurricane activity, and even a 50 percent decrease in U.S. landfalling major hurricanes over the last 80 years, means no one is 'complicit' in these storms." James Agresti, the president of the Just Facts think tank, rightly notes data appearing in the academic journal Geophysical Research Letters show "the global number and intensity of cyclones, hurricanes, and major hurricanes have been roughly level for the past four-to-five decades." Some have said Florence was made worse because of warmer ocean waters caused by climate change, but that's also false. Writing for Climate Change Dispatch, Michael Bastasch explains, "An analysis of Florence's path by Cato Institute meteorologist Ryan Maue showed ocean temperatures were 'abnormally cool' for most of the storm's trek through the Atlantic Ocean." Even the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, one of the most notorious defenders of the theory humans are headed for a climate catastrophe, admitted in 2012 there "is low confidence in long-term changes in tropical cyclone activity, after accounting for past changes in observing capabilities. However, over the satellite era, increases in the frequency and intensity of the strongest storms in the North Atlantic are robust. However, the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence." And if all that weren't enough, it's absolutely absurd to say Trump is any way responsible for global warming because even if it is true humans are the primary cause of warming, carbon dioxide emissions actually dropped in Trump's first two years in office. In 2017, the United States emitted 41.8 million fewer tons of CO2 than in 2016, the largest reduction in the world. And from 2006 to 2016, the United States has averaged an annual reduction in its carbon dioxide emissions of 1.2 percent, according to an analysis by BP. The reason the Washington Post and others are consistently alleging, despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary, that Republicans are somehow to blame for natural disasters such as Hurricane Florence is either because they know absolutely nothing about the topic or because they believe it will help Democrats win elections. Either way, you should stick to what the best-available science says, not the fear-mongering of anti-conservative zealots. Justin Haskins (Jhaskins@heartland. org) is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co-founder of StoppingSocialism. com.	True
77	redstate	right_bias	2019-08-31	So we will certainly — you're right, we've got to look at agriculture, we've got to look at every cause of the crisis that we face."	""Climate change is the leading cause of every bad thing on the earth" is one hell of a "You probably already know", Britta.	All I can say is, if we believe, as I do and you do, that climate change is real, we're going to have to tackle it in every single area, including agriculture.	Okay, so as you probably know, animal agriculture is to blame for the majority of climate change and is the leading cause of deforestation, water and air pollution, and biodiversity loss.	And in fact, one of the things we want to do with our farmers out there is help them become more aggressive and able to help us combat climate change rather than contribute to it.		Beware the Bern…Bernie Sanders Wants to Tax Your Meat Perpetual presidential candidate Bernie Sanders continues his "Gimme" tour with more and more promises to steal from the poor to give to the rich. This week, Bernie met Britta. Britta is concerned about climate change, in particular you nasty, vile carnivores out there. Britta used her one opportunity to quiz a presidential candidate to ask about…meat." kay. Okay. One second while I get my question. Okay, so as you probably know, animal agriculture is to blame for the majority of climate change and is the leading cause of deforestation, water and air pollution, and biodiversity loss. With that being known, what do you plan on doing to ensure that Americans limit their consumption of animal products?""Climate change is the leading cause of every bad thing on the earth" is one hell of a "You probably already know", Britta. Got any facts to back that up or are we just making assumptions? Because, as the great Samuel L. Jackson once uttered on film, "Never make assumptions. They only end up making an ass out of 'u' and 'mption'". But Britta doesn't stop there. She goes on to cite Germany as a shining example of who we should want to be like. You may be completely shocked to learn that Bernie Sanders responded by affirming that indeed, America needs to be more like the nation that brought us Hitler, the Holocaust and the VW Bug (only one of those things is good, by the way. In case you needed some clarity). Sanders did not say outright that a meat tax is an official policy of his platform, but he did give it the old politician shine, indicating that he would support such a notion and that also he's interested in "helping" farmers become more "aggressive" about combatting climate change. Yes, I'm sure farmers will be very excited for your "help" which will be tantamount to them giving up their land, their livestock and their livelihood, effectively causing a nationwide famine but hey…socialists got to socialist." hank you for the question and it's a good question. All I can say is, if we believe, as I do and you do, that climate change is real, we're going to have to tackle it in every single area, including agriculture. Okay? And in fact, one of the things we want to do with our farmers out there is help them become more aggressive and able to help us combat climate change rather than contribute to it. So we will certainly — you're right, we've got to look at agriculture, we've got to look at every cause of the crisis that we face." No word yet on if Sanders will be getting equally "aggressive" with his own multiple vacation properties.	False
