This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger.	Progressive political elites have decided that in order to save the environment ordinary citizens must submit to radical lifestyle changes while those same elites fly around the world on private jets and enrich themselves from trade with China the worlds biggest polluter.	Absent from Bernies argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what itll do to the economy and public services two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about.	Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left.	Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone!	True
What do they want?	The entire spectacle has been highly disruptive for businesses and law enforcement alone.	We are now facing an existential crisis the climate crisis and ecological crisis which have never been treated as crises before they have been ignored for decades said Greta Thunberg a Swedish activist addressing London demonstrators.	THIS IS AN EMERGENCY warns the website of the Extinction Rebellion a group of climate change activists whose civil disobedience has included gluing themselves to a train and to Jeremy Corbyns fence nailing a pink boat to the ground in Oxford Circus pouring fake blood outside Downing Street holding a die in at Londons Natural History Museum and camping beneath the citys Marble Arch.	Perhaps this frustration explains why Adam Boulton a presenter on Sky News told an Extinction Rebellion organizer Robin Boardman on live TV that the protesters come across as incompetent middle class self indulgent people trying to tell us how to live our lives.	True
Like this story?	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	he said.	Critics of the sale fear the expansion in offshore drilling could devastate marine life and lead to roll backs in environmental protections.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	False
The crisis touches every aspect of our lives.	So must the solution.	The world must wake up.	Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	Citizens generally are more concerned about getting a good education obtaining better healthcare and achieving political freedoms than they are tackling climate change according to a 2015 survey from the United Nations.	True
Were addressing the issue.	The Trump administration continues to dismiss and downplay the crisis.	At Interior Zinke overturned an Obama era moratorium on new coal leases on federal land scrapped a hydraulic fracturing rule meant to better protect public health and curtailed a rule limiting the amount of methane that can be released from oil and gas operations on federal and Native American lands.	Administration officials havetouted these declines to explain their push to boost fossil fuels as well as to defend the presidentsdecision last year to withdraw the U.S. from the historic Paris accord on combating climate change.	Were moving forward.	False
But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord.	Everything Schwarzenegger mentions in his short videofrom air pollution to clean water to asthma emphysema and canceris completely unrelated to the Presidents decision to withdraw from the Paris accord.	President Trump says hes pulling out of the Paris climate agreement.	My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	Meanwhile he should probably think about terminating that video.	False
It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate.	Jay Inslee of Washington who made climate change the central focus of his campaign announced he was dropping out of the 2020 race.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	True
Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences came together and took courageous action.	Tonight California stood tall and once again boldly confronted the existential threat of our time said Jerry Brown Californias governor.	Concessions to get some Republican support such as the limiting of separate regulations on refineries risked alienating more liberal Democrats.	Brown has positioned himself as a countervailing force to Trump visiting China to talk to its leaders about climate change and promising to build and launch weather monitoring satellites should federal budget cuts endanger programs handled by Nasa and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOOA.	Defendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earths climate and sea levels the complaint states.	False
Its bloody combat.	But there is perhaps no area where California has been more combative against the White House agenda than the environment.	California Gov.	Jerry Brown ramped up his criticism of President Trump in an interview that aired Monday calling the president a saboteur in the fight to combat climate change and saying that somethings got to happen to this guy.	Speaking to MSNBCs Andrea Mitchell at an environmentalsummitin San Francisco last week Brown tore into Trump for the presidents controversial tweets about the death toll in Puerto Rico from last years Hurricane Maria and urged voters to vote for Democrats in Novembers midterm elections in an effort to thwart Trumps agenda.	True
It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	Technology could help here too.	The operation only the second ever will be led by Island Conservation a US NGO that protects endangered species by removing invasive ones.	Led by Dr Herv Bossin of the Institut Louis Malard the programme breeds and releases non biting male mosquitoes infected with a Wolbachia virus that makes wild females who do bite sterile.	Mosquitoes are not the only pests the Tetiaroa Society is working to eradicate.	False
We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life.	Over the next two years those actions will face intense scrutiny on Capitol Hill.	Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement expanding drilling on federal lands and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks.	Within the first few months of the year incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them.	President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office.	True
And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block.	There are a lot of folks who simply wont do the move.	My question is Why us?	About a month ago the union got three press calls in the same day asking if it had heard there was announcement Region 5 might be closed.	Mikulka the EPA employees union president said shuttering Region 5 would be an effective way to hobble an agency whose mission is largely at odds with the Trump administrations deregulation orientedanti climate protection stance.	True
Gun control is perhaps the most widely known and publicized issue of the 2019 election.	It remains to be seen if any other of the other proposed bills will spark as intense a reaction.	However some push back from state residents might be stronger than expected as the anticipated assault weapons ban has caused 94 counties to declare themselves second amendment sanctuaries.	Following a shooting in Virginia Beach in June Northam called a special session of the legislature in order to address gun violence.	HB 145 mandates that the Virginia Department of Education come up with school board model policies concerning the treatment of transgender students in public elementary and secondary schools that address common issues regarding transgender students in accordance with evidence based best practices.	True
But unlike those figures which relied on one line of evidence the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result.	He added There is some debate about the precise amount of committed warming if we cease emitting carbon immediately.	In reality nothing is quite that straightforward.	That's not the right message to take at all.	But the ambition of Paris caught a lot of people by surprise.	True
This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists with former UN secretary general Ban Ki moon accusing Trump of standing on the wrong side of history.	As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	In June President Donald Trump announced the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord arguing that it was a deeply flawed document that put American workers at an economic disadvantage.	Most signatories Solomon notes in an essay in last Fridays Financial Post are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	Ms. Lagarde is no stranger to exaggerated predictions having proposed in 2016 that a Brexit victory would lead to 500000 job losses while suggesting that Brexit voters are narrow minded and calling for a united Europe.	True
Over the decades disputes arose over the government's changing definition of navigable with opponents complainingthe definition was too broad.	The debate over the water rule was part of a larger political flashpoint over environmental issues during the 2016 presidential campaign as Trump tried to appeal to rural Americans exasperated by federal regulations and the loss of property rights.	While the broader debate centered on climate change and clean air rules the waters rule was nearly as polarizing because its broad application could affect farming construction and other activities near federally regulated waters.	The issue has often come down to the definition of navigable waters under the Clean Water Act.	In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time Trump called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation.	True
The problem at least in the United States is Republicans in Congress and now the White House especially Trump who believes climates change is a hoax who continue to deny that the climate crisis is happening in the first place despite the overwhelming evidence.	Once again the biggest hurdle in battling climate change isnt the existence of feasible solutions those already exist.	Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration I just want to remind the administration that science is political.	As thousands of activists and scientists around the world gather to March for Science Bill Nye has a U.S. Constitution lesson for Donald Trump that proves he must advance scientific causes.	Donald Trump isnt just shirking his constitutional responsibility to advance scientific innovation but hesputting at risk the only planet we have.	True
These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse and as strong as it is resilient.	Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	This spring throughout a week of powerful demonstrations from Earth Day to May Day this resistance will blossom.	Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change.	Some environmental leaders are responding by formulating a lowest common denominator strategy on climate like revenue neutral approaches hoping to magically create a middle ground by bowing to the altar of limited government.	True
And each is a threat to the life liberty and pursuit of happiness guaranteed to every person.	When the air we breathe and the water we drink are imminently threatened so that corporations can make more money life liberty and the pursuit of happiness are on the line.	Rolling back environmental protection regulations and willful denying of scientific data to forestall efforts to fight climate change is a direct threat to each persons right to life liberty and pursuit of happiness.	When the environment poses an unnecessary threat to ones health life is denied.	Securing the long term future of civil rights for LGBT people womens access to heath care and the flourishing of our environment that we may all enjoy life liberty and the pursuit of happiness rests not only on getting to the bottom of the Trump Russia scandal and draining the swamp in his administration along with the scandal covering right denying profit seeking in Congress but also on preventing the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.	True
Whats the takeaway from all this?	Both are states of events that you absolutely want to avoid.	They refer to a tipping point that were catapulting toward and must find a way to avert.	They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos.	First it was global warming andor global cooling.	True
The administration argues he doesn't have jurisdiction.	On Friday he heard two and a half hours of arguments and saidthat he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews.	Now Curiel will be hearing a case about the wall.	'It's time to stop Trump's hateful bombast and his executive overreach here in San Diego before it goes any further.	A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversityenvironmental groups and the State of California against theU.S.	True
Theres an issue with that.	The main concern is the desires of the constituency who are massively opposed to this project Riggi told The Daily Caller New Foundation.	But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	He wrote an editorial in a local paper this week pledging to accept no quarter in the fight against the Lighthouse Wind farm.	The projectcould harm with the regions economy potentially creating problems fora nearbyU.S.	False
Its the biggest threat of all.	Pruitt said that it wasnt a lack of money that was plaguing the program but rather poor leadership and poor focus on the part of the Obama administration.	And in an interview with Fox Business after returning to Washington D.C. Zinke said whether climate change is contributing to the infernos is irrelevant to whats occurred.	Theres no denying the magnitude of the water crisis in the U.S. and abroad.	When a reporter later pressed him outside the White House Zinke said that of course climate change is a factor in the California fires a rather unconvincing acknowledgment considering previous remarks and the number of times Zinke cast doubt on the all but irrefutable body of scientific research that shows human carbon emissions are driving global climate change.	True
Yet in public it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change.	Wassermanwrote an op edin January for the California paper fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxons climate research.	It veered off and crashed into the Bligh Reef causing Exxon more than 3.4 billion through 2008 in cleanup costs and court settlements.	Floating chunks of ice forced the tanker out of its primary shipping lane the paper noted.	Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research.	True
While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	We still have a long way to go in our understanding said Seewald who was not involved in the study.	Voytek said her money is still on Europa for potential life versus Enceladus since Europa is much older and any potential life there has had more time to emerge.	Launched in 1997 and now finally running low on fuel Cassini is drawing ever closer to its demise.	True
It also came two days after Trump issued another tweet transmitting his skepticism of the existence of Climate change.	Over half 53 of voters in the August Quinnipiac poll said climate change is a factor in making fires more extreme.	Trump has stood by his years old claim that climate change is a hoax and emphasized that belief with his statements about the California wildfires which he said were a result of poor forest management drawing criticism from firefighters climate scientists and many others.	In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll 83 of Democrats thought the US should be doing more compared to 62 of independents and 26 of Republicans.	Concern about climate change and global warming has gone up in the last few years from 33 who said they worry a great deal about it in March 2013 to 43 who say the same now according to Gallup Around the same number 45 said they think global warming will pose a serious threat to them or their way of life in their lifetimes in the March poll.	True
The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others.	But GOP opposition to a Green New Deal the grassroots effort to dramatically cut greenhouse gas emissions that has energized activists for months was on full display.	Despite years of partisan bickering over the realities of climate change the idea proved popular.	Impossible.	Glamour Rep. John Shimkus R Ill. long a climate change denier who in the past has relied on Bible verses to make his case argued against the Green New Deal at a House hearing on Wednesday.	True
Last week for example she came under fire from the Sunrise Movement and other climate change activists when she initially declined to participate in the televised Sept. 4 climate change town hall to attend a fundraiser.	She wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths focusing on environmental justice and enforcement said one of the sources.	At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail.	Since then both New York and Massachusetts have pursued cases against the oil company.	She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe.	True
In July 2014 Professor Happer caused controversy during an interview on CNBC television climate expert demonization of carbon dio200107 in the United States when he claimed that the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poor Jews under Hitler.	He was also forced to defend himself after Greenpeace revealed an exchange of email messages Email Chain Happer O Keefe and Donors Trust.html during which Professor Happer discussed writing reports to promote climate change denial in exchange for a secret fee paid to the CO2 Coalition.	The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers and the recruitment of supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy echoes the campaign by Joseph Stalins regime to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the disastrous lysenko soviet union russia548786 pseudo scientific theories of Trofim Lysenko.	Now a group of hardcore climate change deniers and contrarians linked to the administration is organising a petition leads coalition letter commission climate security in support of a new panel being set up by the National Security Council to promote an alternative official explanation for climate change.	The petition is being circulated for signature by Myron Ebell movement greatest threat freedom says trump adviser myron ebell of the Competitive Enterprise Institute a lobby group for free market fanatics which has become infamous for championing climate change denial It does not disclose its sources of funding but is known to have received money from ExxonMobil and conservative billionaires trump global climate change denial environment such as the Koch brothers.	False
Apparently Sloans arguments and those of like minded analysts prevailed on policy makers and the country rejected the CET with its taxpayer funded subsidizing of renewables.	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts.	The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia.	A second blow to disciples of the Paris Climate Accord was last weeks Austrian election Solomon argues which saw two conservative parties with no interest in climate change it wasnt even an election issue come in first and second making them likely to form a pro carbon coalition government.	Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron.	True
Two White House spokespersons did not respond to a question Monday about what Trump's tweet meant.	Trump complained that the water is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean and called for clearing forests as a means of stopping fires from spreading.	It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	But the president's claim about water drew a combination of laughing and head scratching on Sunday although years of drought may be one factor in the fires' quick spread.	So Im not sure what he was recommending' he told the San Francisco Chronicle.	False
Several demonstrators chanted in opposition at the open house style meeting where bureau scientists talked one on one with visitors and collected written comments.	Weve fought similar efforts before and we will fight them again Coastal Commission Chair Dayna Bochco said.	Why do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel said Jim Wilson a 71 year old retired mail carrier from Placerville outside Sacramento.	On Tuesday more than 100 demonstrators gathered outside Oregons state Capitol in Salem to denounce the proposal.	Fishermen environmentalists surfers and other critics demonstrated outside the state Capitol before marching to the meeting at a nearby library.	True
While the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 degree Celsius consistent pathways a complementary mix of stringent policies is required reads the IPCCs report.	The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	However the costs of meeting that goal are high based on the IPCCs own figures.	But that point only serves to undermine Curbelos bill which would put a moratorium on some environmental regulations and possibly eliminate some if emissions goals are reached.	True
Former Secretary of State John Kerry and Rep. Thomas Massie R Ky. had a heated exchange Tuesday over Kerry's education andclimate change.	The incredible exchange began when Massie read a quote Kerry said regarding President Trumps advisers.	Massie asked.	the former secretary of state asked.	the congressman asked.	True
Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers but it will come at a price penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.	That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform.	Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers.	True
Experts say that climate change in the region is exacerbating and sometimes causing a miasma of other problems including crop failures and povertyThe Guardian reported in October.	Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed.	Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations.	People from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood.	The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent startling example Gore tweeted Monday.	False
Caught on camera her stare sparked a thousand tweets and divided the public.	While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom.	People are suffering.	We are all Greta another resistance activist proclaimed sharing a photo of Thunberg scowling at Trump next to a photo of her meeting his predecessor Barack Obama.	Thunbergs fiery speech was likewise met with praise or disdain depending on where one stood in regard to the narrative of manmade climate change.	True
But the intense scrutiny Zinke was certain to face next year from House Democrats wielding new oversight authority turned out to be a fight that he or perhaps the boss hes been so loyal to wasnt up for.	And in a statement posted to Twitter the ongoing agency chief said he cannot justify spending thousands of dollars defending myself and my family against false allegations.	In his resignation letter to Trump Zinke wrote that vicious and politically motivated attacks against him had created an unfortunate distraction according to the AP.	While it appears on the surface that Zinkes departure was a personal decision the AP and The New York Times reported Saturday that the White House forced him out over concerns about ongoing scandals mounting scrutiny and negative press.	For all his feigned swagger Ryan Zinke lacked the courage or integrity to face accountability skipping town as soon as he faced scrutiny Evers said.	False
For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.	The war on coal is over EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declared in the coal mining state of Kentucky.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obamas legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy.	Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	True
Three weeks ago over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhousethe governor made a deal to disband the Independent Democratic Conference known as the IDC.	And on Monday 19 buses carrying more than 1500 activists from across the state converged on the state capital to protest Cuomos failure to do more about climate change in his eight years in office and make demands that looked identical to Nixons platform.It was the largest environmental protest against Cuomo since anti fracking activists staged demonstrations in 2014.	On Friday almost simultaneous to the release of Nixons climate platform Cuomo denied a water quality permit to a new natural gas pipeline environmentalists have protested for months and announced a new energy efficiency initiative that would account for one third of the emissions cuts required to meet his 2030 target.	There needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber ready for the governors signatureEnglebright said Friday.	As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers Cuomo is scrambling to act on long neglected progressive demands.	True
However Trump's team is also deeply divided on whether to withdraw from the pact according to US media reports.	Lacking unanimity Italy which currently presides the Group of Seven decided against proposing the joint statement Calenda said.	G7 energy ministers have failed to agree a statement on climate change this afternoonbecause of 'US reservations' it has emerged.	On March 30 the White House said a decision on whether to withdraw would be made ahead of the G7 summit in Italy in late May.	The ministers' agenda had called for discussion of energy security policies to move away from coal natural gas routes and supply sustainable development of electricity sources alternative fuel scenarios and energy access and investments in Africa.	True
We are left with no other alternatives.	Rural landowners complained about the government regulating how much pollution from chemical fertilizers and pesticides could seep into water on their property.	This is why Alexandria Ocasio Cortez occupied ocasio cortez sunrise activists nancy pelosi Nancy Pelosis office to force support for a Green New Deal.	The protection of our water they figure shouldnt interfere with business.	As climate change accelerates and the planet hurdles ever closer to an existential crisis Trump went to a United Nations conference to tout the benefits katowice climate talks cop24.html of fossil fuels.	False
Be the solution not the problem.	Problem solved.	But most readers were stumped or derisive.	But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.	True
The dispute offers a cautionary tale in what one critic described as regulatory capture of a state agency by a company with deep ties to the Trump administration and a reputation as an environmental pariah unafraid to deploy scorched earth tactics against its opponents.	But just a few months after those emails were sent Energy Transfer Partners and the state officials became embroiled in a vicious public fight over a massive drilling fluid spill and construction pollution.	After months of waging a public and at times bloody battle with protesters bivouacked outside its construction site in North Dakota law enforcement officers razed the encampment and arrested the holdouts.	This kind of pushback were getting from Rover that says You have absolutely no state authority this is all a FERC issue and the tenor and tone theyve taken to interact with us doesnt happen often Butler said.	The company has flagrantly challenged the OEPAs authority infuriating the agency and eliciting a rare public investigation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC the federal agency that regulates interstate electricity and natural gas operations.	True
There is no other option than victory because without victory there is not survival Inslee said at a press conference Monday.	Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	Washingtonians are ready to see their elected leaders step up to prevent further harm to our forests our air and our communities.	However Inslees critics point out that state green policies have raised energy prices including in Seattle where electricity prices have doubled since 2013.	True
President Obama made commitments in this deal based off a costly power plan that we knew at the time was on shaky legal ground.	The decision by the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change is a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security.	Following Mr. Trump's announcement reaction from both supporters applauding Mr. Trump's move as well as those who disagree with the pull out was swift across the political spectrum.	Mayors and cities around the world to uphold the tenets of the Paris climate agreement and protect Boston against the very real impacts of climate change.	By walking away from this pact President Trump is abandoning America's leadership position in the fight against the climate crisis and is sending a strong message to the rest of the world to create design and manufacture clean energy solutions and create jobs elsewhere.	True
Since the caucus hadnt come up with many concrete solutions yet its unclear what it will do going forward.	But other governors races did not go as well one high profile candidate who made climate change a key part of his platforms Democratic Florida gubernatorial contender Andrew Gillum lost.	Measures like Colorados anti fracking Proposition 112 and Washington states Initiative 1631 to price carbon emissions were defeated in part due to a firehose of money being unleashed by fossil fuel interests.	Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U turn going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025.	Several state clean energy and environmental ballot initiatives were also thwarted at the polls.	True
Spokesman Saviano Abreu added that the situation in the northern towns of Macomia and Quissanga was critical while there were also worries for the cut off island of Ibo.	It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go.	As a result flights have been grounded hindering the aid effort.	Thousands of people had already fled their homes to seek shelter from violence in camps for displaced people.	But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful.	True
Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday.	Ted Halstead the chief executive of the Climate Leadership Council said the group did not accept corporate contributions.	Michael B. Gerrard the director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia Law School and an expert on climate litigation said there had been four suits brought against energy companies over climate change including one brought by the eroding Arctic coastal town of Kivalina Alaska.	For this to pass it will have to pass on a bipartisan basis Mr. Halstead said.	But Mr. Halstead said the council had moved a little more to the center adding new leaders like Lawrence H. Summers a secretary of the Treasury under President Bill Clinton and Laurene Powell Jobs a philanthropist and the widow of the Apple founder Steve Jobs.	True
Pruitts maneuver to weaken coal ash standards has sparked grassroots outrage from red states and blue states.	As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitts conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement however its important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting.	One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said What are you doing?	Have you lost your mind?	Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants.	False
They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	However not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker the name of the project.	Conservation groups are protesting efforts to build a small offshore wind farm off the coast of Lake Erie arguing that the project poses a grave risk to the local bird population.	This is far from the first time bird advocates have lamented over wind turbines.	The Black Swamp Bird Observatory and the American Bird Conservancy two different bird conservation groups are opposed to the proposal claiming the turbines would harm the local bird population and that major errors were made during an environmental assessment.	True
Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately.	In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system.	As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case.	In response the federal government argued this week that the injunction maneuver is a ploy to bypass proper legal proceedings.	Indeed Plaintiffs by their present motion are essentially making a bid in this Court for a substitute mini trial or trial lite which is premature until the pure issues of law now being briefed in this interlocutory appeal are appropriately resolved as a threshold matter wrote attorneys for the US Department of Justice.	True
Set aside for the moment the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours seven consecutive hours of prime time programming to the subject.	Banning nuclear energy.	1.	This one will leave a mark.	No compromises on the road to utopia.	True
Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture.	California Gov.	Hes likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt an endangered fish.	Trump also lambasted policies forcing river water to be diverted during the 2016 campaign.	RELATED NYT Claims Global Greening From CO2 Is Terrible Gets Owned State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding California.	False
That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released.	As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost.	When permafrost melts microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide causing even more warming.	He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate near surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century.	False
As they see it the problem is the one that Zinke and other administration officials refuse to acknowledge.	While Zinke works the logging angle Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross have attempted to connect devastating California wildfires to a longstanding fight between farmers and environmentalists over water resources.	But he didnt dwell on those factors and instead argued for more logging and thinning of forests while taking another swing at environmental groups that he says stand in the way of such efforts.	The left he said is angry intolerant and uninformed when it comes to public lands and environmental issues and they arent interested in debate one of the things that have made America great.	At a conservative event in Steamboat Springs Colorado on Friday Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke pounced on the opportunity to blast his critics including the environmental terrorists he blames for wildfires in the West.	True
And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned.	It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	However he pointed to one alarming trend The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering after the end of the last ice age.	Essentially we were looking for evidence of volcanic cones sticking up into the ice Bingham said.	But how many lie below the ice?	True
We'll pass a win the solutions we need.	California is burning.	They asked me to join them and I did Ocasio Cortez tweeted of her involvement with members of the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats who visited several elected officials offices in the building.	The group urged her to step aside if she is unable to mandate such a plan.	pic.twitter.commw6dKSxPVj 350 dot org November 13 2018 Members of the Sunrise Movement responding to Pelosis support in their ownstatement on Twitter said they welcomed her endorsement but added that words arent enough.	True
One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an expresspriority saidJohn Walke director of theNatural Resources Defense Council's clean air program.	In the 14 months he's been the nation's top environmental rulemaker the former Oklahoma attorney general who sued the EPA more than a dozen times has rolled back the Clean Power Plan rescinded the Waters of the U.S. rule and helped convince the president to back out of the Paris Accord on climate change among a number of changes.	But environmental advocates warn it would be another damaging step by an administration obsessed withderegulation at the expense of hard fought public health protections.	This is a backhanded way of weakening the most important and sacrosanct provision of theclean Air Act and he's nodoing it through any normal legislative process said Bill Becker former executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies which represents state regulators.	Trumps action empowers Pruitt to ignore science and data in determining compliance with air quality standards saidSara JordanLegislative Representative for the League of Conservation Voters.	True
Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer but he doesnt understand climate change.	For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem.	The temperature is rising quickly.	I presume you dont watch MSNBCA member of his staff might.	False
I want to go beyond those issues said Del.	Now the monopolies critics fear that the companies which extract fossil fuels and generate energy in addition to transmitting it will seek to water down any efforts to combat climate change.	Virginia Del.	I feel like I have one foot in the old world and one foot in the new world to lead some of the new folks that came in in 2017 and will be coming in this year she said.	Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for.	True
Other emails show the often agonized discussions between staff unsure of what is forbidden.	Some staff werent enamored with the new regime with one employee stating on an email on 5 July that we would prefer to keep the language as is and stressing the need to maintain the scientific integrity of the work.	On 16 February a staffer named Tim Hafner write to Bramblett I would like to know correct terms I should use instead of climate changes and anything to do with carbon ...	In a separate email to senior employees on 24 January just days after Trumps inauguration Jimmy Bramblett deputy chief for programs at the NRCS said It has become clear one of the previous administrations priority is not consistent with that of the incoming administration.	In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms Moebius Clune wrote that references to economic growth emerging business opportunities in the rural US agro tourism and improved aesthetics should be tolerated if not appreciated by all.	True
In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said.	At the time a Vatican official said the move was a slap in the face for the pope and the Vatican.	Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	Many world leaders have criticized Trump for deciding to pull out.	True
But for now more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear.	Grace Quale a hospital laboratory technician who attended a service at an evangelical church on Sunday said that critics want to overthrow our president and that she didnt see a link between Bolsonaros environmental policies and the number of people getting treatment for respiratory problems.	But as breathing related ailments appear to be on the rise attention to the issue has largely been overshadowed by growingacrimony between Brazil and European countries seeking to help fight Amazon fires and protect a region seen as vital to the health of the planet.	The kids are affected the most.	Schneider an associate professor in the geography department said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years.	True
The environmental activist's recent images taken while touring Canada's east coast in Montreal and Quebec are in sharp contrast to images of the 16 year old speaking in an emotionally charged appearance last month at the Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York.	Last week Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change saying 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed the haters are as active as ever going after me my looks my clothes my behaviour and my differences.	You are failing us.	Right here right now is where we draw the line.	Greta Thunberg's fiery speech at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York This is all wrong.	True
The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides.	A dispute arose between Pawa and Sher in 2012 relating to the division of attorneys fees between them under a contract with New Hampshire which retained both to represent the state in the Exxon contamination case.	Two of the attorneys representing various cities in climate litigation against oil companies have a history of suing and counter suing each other over personal squabbles according to documents obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation.	The rivalry between the two attorneys heated up Nov. 26 after San Francisco and Oaklandfired Hagens Bermanand hired Sher Edling to represent the cities as they appeal a courts decision to dismiss their lawsuits against Exxon.	Environmental attorneys Vic Sher and Matt Pawa got intoa multi million dollar legal dispute in 2014 stemming from a lawsuit they both worked on against ExxonMobil.	True
For us this is destruction.	What is being done here is an atrocity against us.	Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation of support for agribusiness of increasing pastures.	French President Emmanuel Macron had called the wildfires an international crisis and said the leaders of the G7 group of nations should hold urgent discussions about them during their summit in France this weekend.	Handech Wakana Mura another local leader within the forest said With each passing day we see the destruction advance deforestation invasion and logging.	True
In a letter sent to Congresson Wednesday morning the newly formed bipartisan coalition U.S.	Yet even as farmers reel from the effects of President Donald Trumps trade war with China Democratic candidates are far from guaranteed their votes.	Early on Republican opposition to the Green New Deal itself coalesced around the idea that such a program would ban beef production although supporters have clearly said it would not.	called for breaking up agriculture monopolies as part of her broad rural platform.	Regeneration International a sustainable farming nonprofit organized the missive with the climate justice group Sunrise Movement.	True
The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels a result of emissions from human activities longer growing seasons a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions and nitrogen pollution another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture the article also claims.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	However dont too excited Campbell warns.	Photosynthesis is the process of converting carbon dioxide into carbohydrates which power plants using sunlight.	True
Calls for the red team blue team exercise began in April one month before the date marked on the top of the documents.On April 20 the day before the March for Science protest in Washington D.C. New York University physicist Steve Koonin published an op ed in The Wall Street Journal calling for a red team blue team exercise to put the consensus to the test and improve public understanding through an open adversarial process.	The meeting included about 40 climate scientists economists lawyers and other experts to discuss the possible creation by the Trump administration of a Red Team Blue Team exercise on climate change he wrote.	The names included on the list suggest that the Heartland Institute wants the debate to go directly after the scientific and legal underpinnings of the EPAs regulations on climate change.	In my opinion the red team would win that debate on the carbon dioxide.	The next day Judith Curry a retired climatologist known for mocking other scientists as alarmists and Anthony Watts who runs a popular climate change denial blog endorsed the idea.The next week Pruitt met with Koonin for an hour according to schedules published by The Washington Post.	True
So the basis of all previous disagreements stems from who gets access to what.	Sunday's agreement goes some way to settling this dispute.	That is why disagreements over how to divide some of its huge oil and gas fields have been numerous and acrimonious.	But the arrival on the scene of new countries complicated this issue with ensuing claim and counterclaim.	It is an important step in the easing of regional tensions but the deal over the world's largest inland body of water matters for several reasons.	True
His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress not the court system is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses.	Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.	From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said.	Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming.	True
In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	The last time we had a really major existential threat to this country was around World War II Ocasio Cortez said at a campaign event.	3.	Ocasio Cortez the democratic socialist expected to become the next U.S. representative for New Yorks 14th Congressional District likened climate change to the existential threat posed by Nazi Germany and the Axis.	Last year Trump announced the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement which every recognized country on Earth has signed.	True
At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012 one participant argued that given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims they are unjustifiably speculative basically unverifiable and better not made at all.	They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory.	Event attributionthe ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warmingis exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst even according to true believers.	If attributing changes in migratory patterns of songbirds to global warming after a mere 12 years of observation strikes readers as highly suspicious thats probably because it is.	This means that birds such as the Townsends warbler and the rose breasted grosbeak are arriving either too soon and being met with frigid temperatures or too late and missing out on the insect boom that coincides with the new plant growth Lant stated.	True
The report is not without its controversies.	We think that this is the most extreme version and its not based on facts she said.	University of Colorado Prof. Roger Pielke Jr. for instance criticized the researchers in a series of tweets Saturday for basing their modeling on a data that are likely to change dramatically over the course of the next 80 years.	He has criticized the medias handling of similar reports.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	True
Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	Slashing a program known for the collaboration between regulators and businesses and the effectiveness its achieved in reducing the backlog of leaking tanks would be crippling he said.	In a letter earlier this year to congressional leaders the head of the trade organization representing state solid waste agencies said the cut would impedethe long term progress states have made on inspection and cleanup.	At some point such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non responsive Thomas said.	But state officials environmental activists and public health advocates warn that the size of the cut carries great risk considering groundwater is the source of drinking water for nearly half of all Americans.	True
They're using stall tactics to defer action ignoring the courts and the demands of the American people.	A spokeswoman for EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declined to comment Friday on the authenticity of the leaked document but said the Obama administration pushed the bounds of their authority so far that the U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay to prevent the Clean Power Plan from taking effect.	The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers said Hal Quinn president and CEO of the National Mining Association.	Liz Perera climate policy director for the Sierra Club said repealing the Clean Power Plan is about one thing and one thing only helping corporate polluters profit.	The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43 page document which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry.	True
He has been outspoken in favor of gun control and after the shooting in Parkland Fla. last year he confronted President Trump on live television denouncing Mr. Trumps suggestion to arm schoolteachers.	His advocacy on the issue goes back many years he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax which would have been the first in the nation voters rejected the proposal in November.	While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P.	growth in the nation in 2018 according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis.	True
Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale.	I regret to inform you that Tuvalu cannot accept this document.58 Frys speech to the conference was a highly impassioned plea for countries around the world to address the issues of man made global warming resulting in climate change.	It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.	In his speech Fry claimed man made global warming to be currently the greatest threat to humanity and ended with an emotional the fate of my country rests in your hands.59 Tuvalus plightalso formed part of the basis for arguably the most hysterical fake news claim in the history of climate alarmism the UNs prediction that by the end of 2010 climate change would have created 50 million environmental refugees.	True
Eskridge faced the climate warming alarmist during a CNN town hall on global warming.	Gore asked.	But Im just not seeing it he said.	Eskridges plight to save his island reached mainstream media attention when President Donald Trump called him after seeing a CNN report about the disappearing islands Trump supporting mayor.	Gore is currently making the rounds to publicize the sequel to his global climate documentary An Inconvenient Truth.	True
Kalmus who has written a book on his experiences said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a rapid cultural transformation and acts of individual defiance help achieve that.	Eventually it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs.	Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	I was shaking people by the lapels posting screeds on Facebook not really getting anywhere he told AFP in an interview from his home in a Los Angeles suburb.	But how impactful can individual action be in the absence of systemic changes from the top?	False
OCASIO CORTEZ CONTRADICTS HERSELF ON ROLE OF GOVERNMENT IN MASSIVE AND UNPRECEDENTED 'GREEN NEW DEAL' But the sweeping proposal was hit with mockery once the details were unveiled on Thursday with many pointing out how unrealistic the suggestions are.	I would love to understand this logic.	Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right?	Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	Right?	True
The coalition of states argued in a statement the delay would waste the substantial resources already expended in this litigation according to a statement from the group.	The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request fromthe Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama era policy known as the Clean Power Plan.	A coalition of states filed a legal challenge Wednesday against the Trump administrations decision to roll back a slew of Obama era climate regulations.	The Trump administrationsays this and other Obama era rules hinder the American economy and create a stultifying business environment.	Hehas engaged in a months long investigation into whether Exxon Mobilillegally hid internal climate research from the public and shareholders.	False
At this time while we do not believe there is any imminent danger the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire andor explosion within the site confines is real Arkema said in a statement.	The unit was stabilized.	Excess emissions occurred during an upset on the Sulfur Plant Thermal Oxidizer Exxon said in the report.	In this case it caused product to spill to the ground.	It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment.	True
But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry.	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another.	True
VIDEO At his confirmation hearing in January Wheeler told lawmakers that climate change is a huge issue but not the greatest crisis.	However the policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	But its only a matter of time before his dirty dealings land him in the same trash heap as his predecessor said Emily Knobbe EPA policy specialist at the Center for Biological Diversity an Arizona based environmental group.	Video by PBS NewsHour Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia who supported Wheelers nomination as deputy last year voted against his promotion.	But Sen. Tom Udall D N.M. said Wheeler was failing to protect the environment and human health and was nominated to unravel and undo the environmental protections that are now in place.	True
So whats the problem?	The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits.	Presumably this will soon be a cause clbre.	Second a key allegation against cigarette companies was that they hid and denied the harms of smoking but the parallel allegations against the energy companies are contradictory.	Local lawsuits also struggle to address the global scope of the climate change problem.	True
We will no longer accept this injustice.	RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	Activists are hoping to closely mirror the youth led March For Our Lives protests in Washington D.C. which took place nearly a year ago following the fatal Parkland Florida school shooting and spark more debate among lawmakers about the dangers of climate change.	We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday.	False
Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. who has made championing a so called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday.	Speakers included 350.org founder Bill McKibben The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones activist and Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinezand MayorDale Rossof deep red Georgetown Texas whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism.	This is going to be the Great Society the moon shot the civil rights movement of our generation she said.	That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require.	Despite stark policy differences with his chief rival in the primaries former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton supported fracking and raisedtwice as much from the oil and gas industryas her Republican opponent climate change remained a policy backwater in the election.	True
Climate Change.'	It also claims it has soured the atmosphere and damaged goodwill in the international arena.	'Our greatest threat in thousands of years.	A statement from the former chiefs came a day before the summit was scheduled to begin and is a highly unusual move.	Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.	True
In truth this presents a problem for Trump.	Talk about all pain and no gain!	Twenty seven states led by West Virginia and several industry groups and trade associations challenged CPPs legality in federal court.	By rescinding it Trump is doing what he promised to do and what any president should do putting America first.	During the 2016 presidential campaign Trump said the United States faces numerous problems more important than climate change and he pledged to eliminate environmental policies hampering economic growth and domestic energy development targeting the CPP by name.	True
That's uncertain Bell said.	Were there oceans?	Were there ponds?	And they say their work could be relevant to places beyond our own planet that may have harsher environments than today's Earth.	But the researchers took great pains to test for contamination account for the exposure to heat and pressure and extrapolate back the original ratios Pinti said.	True
The US and the three other nations sided against welcoming the measure.	Zinke's position involves the dual and sometimes competing roles of overseeing leases to develop resources such as oil natural gas and minerals and preserving federal lands for wildlife and human recreational uses.	Sides with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait at climate conference Considering Trump announced the US would walk away from the Paris climate agreement which brought together the rest of the world it's no surprise the US continues to be an outlier on the international stage.	Washington CNN Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report.	A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security utilizing all energy sources and technologies while protecting the environment.	True
Wheres the presidents outrage about that?	Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated.	I dont know what hes getting at.	True
The partisan nature of the debate was not lost on the audience as one attendee interrupted the proceedings to ask Where are the Republicans?	This is not a red or a blue issue he said.	This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle.	That is just completely and totally unacceptable.	Trumps top aides who are split on whether or not the US should remain part of the Paris accord were scheduled to meet on Thursday afternoon to discuss the deals future.	True
The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently.	The Trump administration has escalated its fight with California over environmental regulations.	Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court.	Gov.	This letter is a threat of pure retaliation Newsom says.	True
We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	Honored to join Indigenous leaders and native peoples as they fight for climate justice DiCaprio tweeted.	At the marquee climate protest the Peoples Climate March in Washington tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House.	In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it.	Any marchers who used their phones to look at the EPA climate change website would have been greeted with a message from the new administration This page is being updated.	False
This was compared to 60 million megawatt hours of energy produced from coal in the same month.	The Trump administration on Wednesday completed one of its biggest rollbacks of environmental rules replacing a landmark Obama era effort that sought to wean the nation's electrical grid off coal fired power plants and their climate damaging pollution.	The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy.	In April for the first time ever the US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal in a single month.	Growth in both solar and wind power has been particularly stark with the former producing 48 times more electricity than it did a decade ago due to cheaper equipment and government incentives.	True
It's an adventure.	The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame.	A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city but it has been plagued by cost overruns corruption scandals and delays.	But for the people who live here it's a real problem Litschauer said cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo.	We need to be resilient and adapt.	True
Hes going to have to take a pretty strong stand.	Ill tell you what I havent seen anything better that addresses the singular crisis we face a crisis that could at its worst lead to extinction he said.	The Sludge an investigative website reported last December that ORourkes Senate campaign failed to comply with a pledge not to knowingly accept contributions of more than 200 from the oil and gas industry.	ORourkes campaign did not respond to questions about whether he plans to sign the pledge or how his qualified support for natural gas is compatible with the Green New Deal.	Environmental advocates and experts wait to see if as ORourke pivots from an election in a conservative led oil state to a national primary race heavily influenced by left leaning Democratic candidates he will have more latitude and desire to put progressive green policies at the heart of his strategy.	True
And the problem is getting more severe.	The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally.	Controlling emissions from agriculture is also a food security issue.	Given how much land it takes to grow food to feed livestock meat production is a leading cause of deforestation.	If greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase as they are doing today it will exacerbate those challenges and eventually make it all but impossible to control global warming without creating serious food shortages.	True
It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power Buzbee said.	Writing for a divided panel he found that this good neighbor rule overstepped the EPA's authority.	The Supreme Court overruled Kavanaugh.	The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection.	Environmental groups were not going to be happy with anyone President Donald Trump picked for the Supreme Court.	False
As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia Washington D.C. for anexclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world.	And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	Bookers support for nuclear power and a carbon fee has tempered any praise from the Climate Justice Alliance a network that fears these policies would hurt more than help affected communities.	Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus.	True
To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator.	The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor.	It is crazy to think about having an EPA administrator who has nothing to offer in replacement of an admittedly not so good regulatory solution former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. now the executive director of the conservative environmental advocacy group RepublicEn told HuffPost by phone on Tuesday.	These people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this timehe added referring to the Trump administration.	Elsewhere a spate of fierce hurricanes inundated parts of the South and Caribbean.	True
Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this.	Instead the Republican strategy has consisted of aggressive denial of the facts coupled with staunch obstruction of any serious action to address the problem.	But they disregard some of its most important teachings when formulating policy.	This is a time for action action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	As I write Hurricane Irma a terrifying superstorm with the highest wind speeds ever recorded in the Atlantic is cutting a destructive path through the Caribbean.	True
We are here today because our climate is under threat Mr. Vella said.	The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia.	Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions.	These problems are just as real in Europe as they are elsewhere around the globe he asserted.	The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a point of no return is to be found in political will.	True
On the political side a lack of engagement strength and leadership from Washington and the White House Garcetti said in an interview.	This really is about interaction economic development.	Certainly there's some change in policy at the national level with this administration creating a bit of change and foreign governments are wanting to interpret that said Scott Pattison the NGA's executive director and chief executive officer.	They need to be more thoughtful.	Jerry Brown and Lt. Gov.	True
I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	That promise falls short of what Ocasio Cortez Tlaib and the Sunrise Movement protesters seeknamely the creation of a so called Green New Dealbut the attention has started a conversation between the new members and their partys longtime leader.	The night before Tlaib and Representative elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez N.Y.who made headlines today by joining the protesters at Pelosis officehad stopped by St. Stephens church to meet with the activists on the eve of the demonstration.	I wanted to come and help.	Climate change has been a key issue for both Tlaib and Ocasio Cortez.	True
Like this story?	In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures.	Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State.	Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower.	Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past.	True
pic.twitter.comNWIO1aRvM3 Alejandro Alvarez September 23 2019 Climate activists are shutting down major intersections throughout DC.	Im in downtown DC where climate activists with Extinction Rebellion have blocked the intersection of K and 16th streets with a big sailboat that says rebel for life.	pic.twitter.comJhjVBr1hU3 Sam Sweeney September 23 2019 Mondays protests come on the heels of a worldwide climate strike on Friday a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the largest climate rally ever.	Activists demanding a greater global response to climate change disrupted Monday morning commutes with protests in Washington D.C.	The organizers said their goal was to shut down the center of decision making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy.	True
Its not based on facts.	He moved to lay blame on forest management policies during the visit instead even suggesting that raking would help stop the scourge of wildfires claims he appeared to repeat in his interview with the Post on Tuesday.	The fire in California where I was if you looked at the floor the floor of the fire they have trees that were fallen they did no forest management no forest maintenance and you can light you can take a match like this and light a tree trunk when that thing is laying there for more than 14 or 15 months Trump said.	White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Tuesday that the recent National Climate Assessment was not based on facts.	The president has stayed firm on his anti climate rhetoric in recent days even after the devastating Camp fire in Northern California left at least 88 people dead.	False
Something must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.	None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	Now what does he want?	They obviously dont want that.	None Turkey's president Erdogan bluffed Trump out of Syria.	True
This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible.	This is the existential threat de Blasio said.	... We have to do it ourselves.	CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP But the prospect of private development on the newly built land is sure to meet resistance from downtown Manhattan community members.	The fact is it is not.	True
I think something's happening.	Something's changing and it'll change back again he said.	Speaking at a Red Cross center in Georgia where he was touring areas devastated by last weeks Hurricane Michael Trump said there is something there in response to a question on climate change from a reporter.	I think there's probably a difference.	I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	True
During the 2016 Democratic primary Sanders clashed with Clinton over climate change attacking her support for increased gas drilling in a heated debate.	Sanders has also drawn heat recently for his uncertain stance on reparations for the descendants of slaves and for quietly hiring a journalist who frequently attacked his 2020 opponents on Twitter as an adviser.	After Clinton clinched the nomination the issue disappeared without a single question asked during three debates between Clinton and her Republican opponent Donald Trump.	In February he attacked Trump for ignoring climate change in his State of the Union address.	Carbon emissions from campaign travel first became an issue during the 2004 election when the NRDC Action Fund an affiliate of the Natural Resources Defense Council began raising concerns about the huge amount of fuel candidates burned crisscrossing the country.	True
While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive he is now convinced that somethings changing and itll change back again according to aninterviewhe gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday.	Meanwhile he doesnt want to sacrifice the economic well being of our country for something that nobody really knows.	Some might argue the concept of a long term when it comes to the environment was rendered irrelevant by the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report.	Trump may believe in climate change now but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have a very big political agenda.	Trumps appointee to the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt notoriously attempted to roll back several key environmental regulations passed under Barack Obama including the Clean Power Plan the Clean Water Rule and a proposed ban on the pesticide chlorpyrifos.	False
The unusual arrangement has attracted attention in Washington where Pruitt has been under increasing scrutiny for this frequent taxpayer funded travel which has included first class airline tickets.	Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency.	Walter Shaub who ran the U.S. Office of Government Ethics until last year rated EPAs legal justification of Pruitts living arrangements as Total Baloney.	Copies of Pruitts daily calendar obtained by the AP through a public records request show that Pruitt meet in his EPA office with two top OGE executives and a registered lobbyist from Harts firm in March 2017 when he was living at the condo.	True
What is doing this to us?	I think I know what the problem is he says.	What can we do?	No one has any answers.	Can you help us?	True
The islands with no rats are full of birds they're noisy the sky is full and they smell because the guano the birds are depositing back on the island is very pungent.	Coral reef systems are at crisis point because of climate change said Prof Graham.	The much maligned rat is not a creature many would associate with coral reefs.	But scientists studying reefs on tropical islands say the animals directly threaten the survival of these ecosystems.	Rats decimate seabird populations in turn decimating the volume of bird droppings a natural coral fertiliser.	True
No bloom no harvest.	Both trends increase the chances that from time to time farmers will face catastrophic shortages of water.	5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate Change Climate change is coming like a freight train or a rising tide.	If they don't experience enough chill during wintertime they get confused and don't bloom properly.	They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	True
That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	Tangier Island's steadfast rejection of climate change reflects the rigidity of American opinions about global warming often defined along political party lines.	Conservative climate activists like Rob Sisson of ConservAmerica and Mitch Hescox of the Evangelical Environmental Network said the rejection of climate change by Tangier residents is not surprising their groups often have trouble convincing fellow Republicans global warming is a real issue.	Journalists and politicians now view the island as a symbol of the climate crisis.	Often they say people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to.	False
That worsens the violence that many cite as a main reason for fleeing northward.	Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress.	A quasi fascist policy of fear mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trumps response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos said Ashley Dawson author ofExtreme Cities The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change.	Climate change is contributing to make nations unstable both nations in our neighborhood and others abroad said Femia whose Washington based policy institute includes former top national security advisers.	The president attempted to cut funding forUnited States Agency for International Development by 33 percent this year though bipartisan support for the federal governments dedicated aid agency staved off the proposal.	False
This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord.	But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups.	Even within his own cabinet there are numerous siren voices Javanka Secretary of State Tillerson Economics advisor Gary Cohn urging Trump to maintain his predecessors disastrous green policies.	Hence Trumps election trail promise and executive orderin March this yearrequesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP.	But it also lays the groundwork for new presumably weaker regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement.	False
University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	Brown is right in one sense.	Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	California Democratic Gov.	What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity.	True
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a non profit promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	The Washington Post reported in September that Konkus had been scrutinizing grant applications for mentions of climate change which he reportedly calls the double C word.	It's not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing.	Lakely the Heartland spokesman responds he's shared the article with colleagues asking them to jump to your aide sic and defend this position.	True
The youths held signs that read Greed Kills Help My Home is on Fire and 527 Years of Indigenous Resistance and chanted in between speeches phrases such as What do we want?	The publicist for the New York City protest refused to speak with Breitbart News when an inquiry was made about Thunbergs appearance and about Alexandria Villaseor a 14 year old who claims she has been protesting every Friday at the United Nations for 38 weeks.	Climate Justice.	A speaker said that the protest was not the goal of the movement by a catalyst for action including a planned global climate strike on September 20 just three days ahead of a U.N. climate summit that is expected to draw leaders from around the world and where Thunberg will be a special guest and speaker.	We cannot live in a world that is burning one young woman said that is melting.	True
The drama unfolded less than a day after the Feb. 7 rollout of the now beleaguered deal.	He often engages in legal battles against attorneys who sue energy companies over climate change.	Richardsons group is also on the front lines in battles against anti oil activists.	Ocasio Cortezs staff was forced to ding the document from the website and clarify the lawmakers position.	Christopher Horner a senior fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute told TheDCNF that Steyers reticence to leap into the fray is probably a smart tactic given the GDNs controversy.	True
The American political conversation about climate is indeed scary and depressing.	As the CEO of one of Americas historically coal dependent utilities Tom Fanning of the Southern Company says You cant keep waves off the beach.King Canute knew this.	Lets begin with bringing back coal.	The world rightfully worries when they hear Donald Trump proclaim he is going to bring back coal and watch the administration and the Republican Congress try to roll back such common sense requirements limits on the wasteful flaring and leaking of methane from oil and gas fields.	But the decarbonization of the real U.S. economy as opposed to the cardboard fossil fuel handicapped White House version continues.	True
The climate crisis is the existential crisis for our world she said.	It was a different story this time around.	The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists.	They have pressed for an official DNC climate change debate because they argue its needed to finally allot candidates the time to debate their plans in depthand to highlight the fact that President Donald Trump has no answers himself.	The Democratic candidates sounded the alarm on climate change in the first presidential debates but the discussion in June was so limited that they never really got into the details of how theyd solve the crisis.	False
Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed.	Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse.	That Trump would nominate a lifelong oilman to succeed John Kerry who led the U.S. through the Paris climate negotiations of late 2015 as the nations top diplomat resulted in predictable and fierce pushback.	Rep. Barbara Lee D Calif. also took issue with Pompeos past statements on climate change.	Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community she said.	True
Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	Rising emissions from on road transportation has undercut the states efforts to reduce pollutionaccording to Next 10 San Francisco based non profit.	Some people say 2035 some people say 2040 she said.	Brown one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. Ive gotten messages from the governor asking Why havent we done something already?	The trade association represents Toyota Honda Motor Co. and other overseas carmakers in the U.S. We have been working with California on intelligent market based approaches to emissions reductions beyond 2025 and we hope that this doesnt signal an abandonment of that position Global Automakers Chief Executive Officer John Bozzella said in a statement.	True
But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	But that is where reality tempers the possibilities.	There are other challenges too.	In April 2017 Tamil Nadu farmers camped out in India's capital Delhi staging dramatic protests stuffing dead rats in their mouths stripping themselves naked in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home and drinking their own urine to underscore the intensity of the drought back home.	In June 2017 villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant they alleged that more than 200000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250000 solar modules daily.	True
Trumphas alternately ignored or denied the climate crisis.	They called the Paris agreement a start not a finish line but the best ignition switch the world could agree on to spark international cooperation on this critical issue.	But organizers of local city and state efforts to curb the crisis across America say the US is still trying to play a role in fighting the climate crisis despite the actions of the federal government.	Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world.	Senator Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel said Once again President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain.	True
Whoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went onto the streets will need to deliver now said Sven Giegold a leading candidate for the German Green party that scooped up more than 20 of the vote nationwide an increase of almost 10 compared with 2014.	Armin Laschet the governor of Germanys most populous state North Rhine Westphalia and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkels center right Union bloc called the outcome a wake up call for politics.	The enmity was reflected in comments by Alexander Gauland the co leader of the far right Alternative for Germany party who declared the Greens our main enemy on Monday.	People didnt take to the streets to elect or kick out a party but for these problems to be solved.	The climate issue is super important at the moment Tran said.	False
Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Of six different options global warming and climate change performed the worst beaten handily by climate crisis environmental destruction weather destabilization and environmental collapse.	Recent studies have shown that the language of climate change and global warming do not stir up an emotional reaction in people and so climate alarmists have issued an appeal for the use of more powerful expressions to provoke people to action.	The expression climate crisis for instance got a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners than climate change the study found.	Last April a team of advertising consultants from SPARK Neuro released the results of astudysuggesting that worn out expressions such as climate change do not frighten people enough whereas stronger vocabulary such as climate crisis and environmental collapse produced a significantly stronger emotional response.	True
Global Change Research Program.	But Ekwurzel cautions that we can't merely adapt our way out of this mess.	It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	Here are some key points.	Extreme weather events could also cause price spikes and interrupt international trade.	True
Theres enough to deal with with respect to the Paris agreement and making an informed decision about this important issue he said.	They werent doing enough and America was carrying the load so I think by negotiating a better deal hopefully we can get a better result for our country and the world.	But he added Measuring with precision from my perspective the degree of human contribution is very challenging.	Pruitt claimed Trump wants better terms within the Paris framework or an entirely new deal and dismissed warnings from world leaders that it is not negotiable.	The EPA administrator was asked repeatedly whether Trump believes climate change is a hoax as Trump previously claimed but refused to give a straight answer.	True
In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company.	To avert climate chaos we need to challenge the free market fundamentalism that has conquered the world since the 1980s.	The answer doesnt really matter.	As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	Members of Trumps cabinet Klein has written donald trump tax cuts climate change republican ideology capitalism with their desperate need to deny the reality of global warming or belittle its implications nonetheless understand something that is fundamentally true.	False
The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	There was no mention of oil in this context in the summary.	Meeting the 1.5C limit required rapid far reaching and unprecedented change in land and energy use industry buildings transport and cities it said adding temperatures would be 1.5C higher between 2030 and 2052 at the current pace.	It said keeping the rise in temperature to 1.5C would mean sea levels by 2100 would be 10 cm lower than if the warming was 2C the likelihood of an Arctic Ocean free of sea ice in summer would be once per century not at least once a decade and coral reefs would decline by 70 90 percent instead of being virtually wiped out.	True
The question of unfairness cropped up again and again how the world's worst polluters China and India had no meaningful obligations placed on them by the deal.	Opponents say withdrawing from the accord is an abdication of US leadership on a key global challenge.	Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called the decision one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st Century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing.	Leaders of the Nordic nations Sweden Finland Denmark Norway and Iceland also condemned the move.	Speaking in the White House Rose Garden Mr Trump characterised the Paris agreement as a deal that aimed to hobble disadvantage and impoverish the US.	True
The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios.	Trump said the deal transferred wealth from the U.S. to economic rivals like China and India.	This is religion for the political left and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior a top White House official told Axios who added that snarky comments from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw.	Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact.	President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.	True
Thousands break off every year.	But the threat is expected to return to the coastal South African city again next year and beyond.	There are also questions on how the water from the iceberg will be channelled into the city's distribution system.	Mother Nature has been teasing mankind with this for a long time saying 'this is here'.	Earlier this year Cape Town came within weeks of shutting off all its taps and forcing residents to queue for water rations at public standpipes.	True
Thecreationof the DMZ in 1953 marked a ceasefire in a war that divided Korea and resulted in the deaths of 2.5 million people including more than 36000 American soldiers.	With the exception of Panmunjom a small village where peace negotiations were held and is still the site of some diplomatic engagements people are not allowed in the DMZ.	The NIE regularly updates Koreans about the state of nature in the DMZ through videos it posts on its social media accounts.	Other areas could be designated for economic cooperation and travel.	South Korea applied for registry in 2012 but was thwarted by North Korean opposition according to the Dong A Ilbo.	False
It could lead to a carbon tariff trade war.	But withdrawing from the landmark accord that committed nearly every nation to take action against planet warming emissions could create diplomatic blowback while weakening American leadership in arenas far afield from energy and the environment.	Harold G. Hamm the chief executive of Continental Resources and a Trump campaign adviser has also condemned the pact.	Bob Murray the chief executive of the coal company Murray Energy who is personally close with the president has also strongly criticized the deal.	Mr. Book the analyst noted that the risks of withdrawing from the Paris deal include not only diplomatic ill will but also the possibility of trade reprisals.	True
This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	In 50 years she says it's going to be very different.	We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible.	But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals.	Scientists and climate researchers have long doubted that the 1.5 degree C goal was practical or economically feasible.	True
The decision by Khurelsukh's cabinet to distribute air purifiers is a very bad decision Davaadalai said.	Worried parents have held protests to press the government to take action.	But Smog and Kids representative Tumendalai Davaadalai said air purifiers were not the answer to the problem.	But Maria Neira the head of the WHO's public health department said the real solution to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it.	Her machine which filters out toxic fumes cost her 300.	False
Speaking at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow slammed the progressive proposal that was recently introduced by Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York and Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts.	The resolution co sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020 has been heavily criticized by those on the right.	Ocasio Cortez fired back on Twitter and said A living wage isn't a gift it's a right.	Kudlow said the deal will knock out energy transportation airlines jobs businesses.	Kudlow said universal health care and ending private insurance were also crazy ideas citing high costs.	False
Although DiCaprio is a self proclaimed environmentalist he continued to live an incompatible lifestyle of massive carbon emissions.	Clooney criticized global warming skeptics as stupid and ridiculous in 2013.	The actor also asked if are we too late to stop climate change and blasted the supposed corporate greed of the coal oil and gas industries in January 2016.	But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.	True
Our health hangs in the balance too.	Climate change is a threat multiplier for much broader dislocation accelerating the complex factors that drive people from their homes.	Its not just the future of the environment thats at stake here.	At a February meeting on climate change and health former Vice President Al Gore focused his talk on this problem.	Brian Deese a senior adviser to President Barack Obama overseeing climate change and energy policy and former Ebola czar Ron Klain explained why in a piece at the Washington Post Climate change destroys habitats and stresses animal populations such as the bats of West Africa forcing them to hunt for food nearer to humans.	True
He criticized Trumps sudden announcement of a potential withdrawal as not the way it should be done.	Trade Renegotiate NAFTA.	He vigorously opposed a Texas law Davis Juli n Castro rally abortion rights 4660994.php to ban abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy and limit facilities and access to abortions in general.	Social issues Abortion should remain legal after 20 weeks.	Immigration ICE and the border Allow a path to citizenship house committee spars with san antonio mayor.html for most undocumented immigrants.	True
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	And therein lies the problem.	The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans.	To make sure the two sides stay in touch such meetings are to take place at least once every six months in accordance with an agenda approved by them in advance of every meeting.	For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries.	True
Recall the false promises about corn and cellulosic ethanol The Wall Street Journal editorial board wrote of the study.	However Congress is debating whether or not to extend electric car subsidies.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Its better read as a warning that new technologies arent a climate change panacea.	True
She said the effects of invasive species such as kudzu lionfish and Australian pines have already caused chaos in the southern states where they lack predators and displace native plants and animals and already cost the states millions of dollars in losses and eradication.	She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead and one that happened in Chile in January.	Activists from the South Pacific Islands Southern Asia and North and South America weighed in rejecting all genetically engineered trees including field trials.	Petermann said another red flag is wildfires.	She said it was clear that the planet once had rivers and great amounts of water and possibly an atmosphere similar to ours but a global catastrophe had happened.	True
It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates like what executive orders they would sign how high climate change ranks as a priority and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy.	CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy.	Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Much of the discussion was shallow and uninformative partly a consequence of having to split attention across 20 candidates.	Washington Gov.	True
But Zinke is correct that environmental litigation has kept federal agencies including the Interior Department and U.S. Forest Service from thinning clearing debris and conducting prescribed burns to keep forest growth in check.	Randi Spivak public lands program director at the Center for Biological Diversity said the administration is missing the main issue by being dismissive of climate changes effect on the fires.	The judge sided with environmental groups and ruled renders the Project inconsistent with the desired vegetative conditions set forth in the Payette Forest Plan from 2003.	Environmentalists have obviously not taken kindly to Zinkes remarks but are particularly incensed by his dismissal of global warming as a driver of catastrophic wildfires.	The day before that Zinke lambasted environmental terrorists groups that have not allowed public access that refuse to allow harvest of timber in aninterviewwith Breitbart Radio.	False
The new order could put the administration at loggerheads with California regulators again.	It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk.	In what could be the most controversial part the order requires the EPAs science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rulessomething for which industry groups have clamored for years.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	That directive is likely to prompt watchdog groups to sue.	True
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	The Assisi diocese joined the dioceses of Caserta and Gubbio in this symbolic gesture along with dozens of other Catholic organizations throughout the world such as the Archdiocese of Cape Town the Belgian bishops conference the German Bank for Church and Caritas.	Coordinating these efforts is the World Catholic Climate Change Movement which in January sponsored the first world conference on fossil fuel divestment from a Catholic perspective at Romes Pontifical Lateran University.	As part of the Pope for Ukraine initiative Francisdonatedmore than 2.5 tons of fuel per displaced family cared for by the parish of the Holy Theotokos in the village of Vilcha.	Earlier this year Pope Francis momentarily departed from his denunciation of fossil fuels offering a large donation of tons of cost effective fuel briquettes to heat the homes of internally displaced persons IDPs in Ukraine.	False
After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site state Representative Gerry Pollet who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest called their actions outrageous.	The disposal of radioactive waste at Hanford has been plagued with problems.	I am shocked to see something like this in 2017 Pollet said.	They are here for the money and thats it Carpenter told KING.	The one thing you dont want to do is create more waste sites said Dirk Dunning a chemical engineer and Hanford expert.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post.	While Trump has been in office the air has gotten dirtier.	To make matters worse on Wednesday the EPA finalized what will be its biggest climate policy rollback according to the Washington Post.	That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims.	True
This is critically important for two main reasons.	The other is that particulate emissions play a key role in the bureaucratic politics of climate change.	Climate change garners most of the headlines but the Trump administration is pushing a much larger and broader pro pollution agenda whose latest manifestation is a push at the EPA to overturn a long established scientific consensus that fine particulate pollution colloquially soot kills people.	Tony Cox an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPAs Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee argues that the EPAs agencys current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor.	Each of these impacts independently suggests that we are currently allowing too much air pollution and they also cry out for more research that attempts to assess the long term cumulative impact of pollutants that appear to induce cognitive problems throughout the life cycle.	False
Video showed thousands marching in the streets of Washington where former Vice President Al Gore Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Virgin Atlantic owner Richard Branson showed up to protest as well.	This weekends protests come one week after last weeks March for Science.	A mid spring snowstorm in Colorado over the weekend postponed a rally that sought to bring attention climate change and global warming as well as protest President Donald Trumps climate policies.	The Peoples Climate March which was supported by hundreds of thousands across the country and tens of thousands in Washington was sponsored by environmental groups labor unions and social justice groups.	We know we arent in the business of risking anyones safety.	True
The battle of Initiative 1631 has become the most expensive in state history so far drawing 45 million from both sides of the policy.	The political battle heated up that month when gas tax opponents threatened to recall Attorney General Xavier Becerra a Democrat for allegedly trying to mislead voters about the proposal.	Opponents have attacked the ballot measure for its odd pairing of issues smoking and offshore drilling.	The Daily Caller News Foundation lays out everything one needs to know about the six most important energy battles this election.	While our editorial board opposes offshore drilling in state waters we also are philosophically opposed to the Constitution Revision Commissions bundling of these unrelated issues into a single amendment the editorial board of Treasure Coast Newspapers wrote in October.	True
The consent decrees here involve violations of federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama era environmental regulations as possible.	Less enforcement doesnt mean there arent a whole lot of violations that are out there said Eric Schaeffer executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush in a call with reporters.	And as I pointed out last month in this feature story hes also overseen a drastic slowdown in the day to day work of the agency.	True
Mr Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris agreement was met with dismay around the world yesterday.	Jeremy Corbyn said 'Given the chance to present a united front from our international partners she Mrs May has instead opted for silence and once again subservience to Donald Trump.	It's a dereliction of both her duty to this country and our duty to our planet.'	But she was criticised by Labour for failing to add her name to a joint statement issued by European leaders to say that the Paris climate accord cannot be renegotiated as Mr Trump has demanded.	She stressed the importance of the fund in heading off wider humanitarian crises such as droughts and floods and said leaders should focus on cutting waste from the programme rather than pumping in more cash immediately.	False
Gov.	But at the state level politicians are fighting back and nowhere more so than in California.	Heoutraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement.	He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan fuel economy standards for carsoffshore drilling restrictions and solar tax credits.	Republicans cast the deciding votes amid the endorsement of prominent California GOP politicians like former Gov.	False
The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist.	Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'	The 16 year old Swedish face of climate activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?'	at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year accusing them of failing the younger generation.	The young activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk fr klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year.	True
Nye for his part has been one of the most belligerent apostle for the environmental movement.	Nye who is well known for hosting a childrens TV show in the 1990s scolded CNNs New Day Saturday panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicistWilliam Happer.	Comedian Bill Nye accused CNN of doing a disservice to its viewers for inviting a well respected physicist on Earth Day to argue about the legitimacy of man made global warming.	He told reporters that climate change is tremendously exaggerated adding that climate research is important but I think its become sort of a cult movement in the last five years.	He went on to say that Nyes views on science are backward.	False
The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance.	Meanwhile his Cabinet members have refused to say whether Trump believes climate change is real and continue to question how much the scientific community understands about the threat and the role humans play in observed changes.	Is man having an effect on it?	In a post to Twitter Gavin Schmidt a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be shocking to those that think climate change is just a future problem.	In June he announced plans topull the U.S. out of the historic Paris Agreement on climate change the international accord in which nearly 200 countries committed to slashing carbon emissions in an effort to prevent global temperatures fromincreasing 2 degrees Celsiusabove pre industrial levelsthe line scientists say the world must stay below to stave off the very worst effects of climate change.	True
Critics have railed against the Interior Department for moves seen as halting scientific growth.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement.	'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	And Interior Department climate scientist Joel Clement allegedthat he and dozens of other scientists had been arbitrarily reassigned.	Additionally his proposed 2018 budget would cut funding for the Office of Surface Mining which is responsible for protecting society and the environment from the adverse effects of surface coal mining operations.	True
Deal with it later?	Demand to be treated like adults.	We require teamwork to endure what is coming.	Three well known parables apply One more stick with the pin?	We must develop a mutually supportive community again.	True
Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland.	Environmentalists vowed to sue the administration over the proposal.	We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal we will see them in court.	The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits.	False
When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	It's just unacceptable that a company like PG is making toilet paper a product that is used for seconds and flushed from virgin pulp said Shelley Vinyard boreal corporate campaign manager for the Natural Resources Defense Council and one of several dozen protesters at PG's annual shareholders meeting in Cincinnati Ohio on Tuesday.	It could potentially be a mix.	We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	Consumer goods giant Procter Gamble faces pressure from environmentalists to clean up its act.	True
And those two things are kind of in conflict.	So naturally there's been some hostility toward new sources of energy that could threaten that.	At the end of the day the debate in Wyoming is really about jobs.	It's a complicated history with wind says Jeremiah Rieman director of economic diversification strategy for Wyoming Gov.	Meanwhile conservationists and environmentalists have bristled at the rollback of regulations.	False
The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation.	There will be a separate administration public hearing on the same extension next Monday according to the Washington Post.	Lazarus continued the DC Circuits ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator Scott Pruitt can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration.	Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years.	True
This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	The loss for the administration means it now faces a high profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge.	The administration has said a courtroom is not the appropriate venue for a debate on climate change policy.	This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers.	True
Rob Bishop the top Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee said on the House floor before the vote.	Related Green New Deal What is it and what does it mean for climate change?	Years in the crafting the measurecombines more than 100 separate bills that collectively would designate1340000 acres of new wilderness 367 miles of new scenic rivers and 2600 miles of new national trails.	But it also enjoyed larger buy in.	Related Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect The very basis of all of the bills that are in here is to put people above government Utah Rep.	True
The sale comes amid an ongoing debate over drilling in states like Colorado Arizona and New Mexico where a coalition of tribes are calling for a halt on energy development near land that Native Americans consider sacred.	Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people.	But the new energy dominated era she said were in has made public input on these processes harder.	When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization.	You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging.	False
On one side of that debate is a theological argument thats gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade.	The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	But after receiving unanimous support by the board the 30 million member organization voted down the proposal kickstarting a campaign by fossil fuel interests to transform the doubt over global warming into what Splinter in a lengthy report published in August succinctly described as the word of God.	The former judge says he places Gods law above the Constitution describes Islam as a false religion and has repeatedly defied federal orders to remove religious ornaments from his courtroom.	told HuffPost.	True
Instead they both said the focus should be on resiliency.	Trump dismisses climate change question by contradicting himself on hurricanes Other departments are also adopting the language replacement in some cases making unannounced changes and replacements to their websites and names of programs.	While Sullivan acknowledged that there's been an intentional shift of language at the department especially as the topic of climate change continues to be discussed or avoided hand in hand with storm preparedness he argues that at the end of the day the administration has the same goals for rebuilding communities.	We could tie this to climate change or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money.	But administration officials counter that resiliency can have a dual meaning even one that means essentially the same thing but without the overt climate change undertones.	True
President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has been portrayed in some press coverage as a decision driven by either his personal idiosyncrasies or the policy agenda of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon.	Which makes it the crucial context for Trumps move Thursday.	The reality is that one of the USs two major political parties is institutionally committed at nearly every level to the same basic agenda of environmental deregulation and inaction on carbon emissions.	Though Trumps withdrawal from the Paris agreement has been received by some as a shocking move it was hardly a fringe position in the Republican Party he was being outright pressured to do it.	The occasional notable Republican politician who does conclude that the scientific consensus is accurate and tries to work with Democrats on the issue gets slammed by these passionate and well organized groups and can face serious pressure from the right as happened to Lindsey Graham when he was working on a cap and trade bill in 2010 and got attacked by Fox News.	True
How did the resistance get to this point?	How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy.	Its embarrassing.	But he doesnt care because in his mind its real.	Its hard not to look at this hyperactive Gen X er and think this is exactly what the far left has become a group that has rarely experienced hardship in their lifetime because of the greatest generation comparing everything they find upsetting to the greatest generation.	False
Farmers will face extremely tough times.	In Houston communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause.	The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities Easterling said.	Dependable and safe water for the Hawaii the Caribbean and others are threatened by these rising temperatures.	Almost half that rise has been since 1993 a rate of rise greater than during any century in the past 2800 years.	True
Photo GettyEyeEm The evidence behind global climate change continues to mount and scientists keep speaking out.	Now they hope the world will listen.	Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion Blunden told Yahoo News.	True
Its a climate crisisThat is why I support a Green New Deal.	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	We cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisianas Cancer AlleyHarris said in a statement.	I dont even call it climate change she said.	It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate which is how to include low income and communities of colorthe frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate changein the legislative process.	True
Spewing.	You know we have a world right?	None Trump impeachment FAQ What you need to know	Right?	You talk about the carbon footprint fumes are spewing into the air.	True
On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes.	Republicans had used the moment as an opportunity to appear defiant with one Republican state senator Brian Boquist even threatening police.	The concession from Democrats may have been motivated by a time constraint.	They also said they were being bullied by Senate Democrats.	Democratic Gov.	True
It is an international crisis.	This is the war we are facing.	On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	Members of the G7 Summit lets discuss this emergency first order in two days Meanwhile a spokesperson for the Elyse Palace said that in light of Brazils attitude these recent weeks Macron can only conclude that President Bolsonaro lied to him during the Osaka Summit in June where world leaders agreed on the urgent need to combat climate change pollution and environmental destruction.	These countries that send money here they dont send it out of charity he said.They send it with the aim of interfering with our sovereignty.	True
While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies its more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric whichonly serves to encourage people throughanxiety and panic.	In a hyper political environment pro climate change and anti climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters and the implementation ofstandardized response to these crises.	Instead of focusing on the apprehensionand divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters its more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together tohelp one another.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season as well asthe most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria which was said to cripple Dominica with widespread devastation en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States its important to maintainlevelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speakingtruth amidstapprehension.	Loris also disputedassertions that global warming supercharged these hurricanes which made them deadlier citing work by University of Washington climatologist Cliff Mass and former director of the National Hurricane Center Bill Read both of whom rejected this claim after conducting research into the phenomenon.	False
Firstly he called me a liar.	He wrote Do not humiliate the guy ha ha.	The two presidents hold sharply different political views with Mr Bolsonaro hailing from the far right in Brazil and Mr Macron elected in a run off against the far right in France.	Every year it is the same these fires are disturbing the region a lot.	It's a risky situation we have lots of crops here and everything is burning such as the cashew trees he told the BBC.	True
And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	Yet his tune appeared to change after leaders in Europe said a major trade deal could be at risk and many on social media started calling for a boycott of Brazilian products.	That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non governmental organizations of starting the fires.	Protests took place in Brazil and across the world Friday and Saturday demanding that the Brazilian government take action.	Yet despite the new found sense of urgency some are skeptical that the involvement of the military would really be able to do much.	True
If WeWork employees want a burger while on business the money is coming out of their own pockets.	New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact even more than switching to a hybrid carWeWork co founder MiguelMcKelvey said in an email to staffers.	WeWork confirmed the policy change to both news outlets.	Employees wanting medical or religious exceptions can hash those out witha company policy team.	The company won't provide meat for events at its 400 locations eitherpart of an effort to reduceits environmental footprint.	True
The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products.	The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures.	The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally.	Shell in a statement said lawsuits that masquerade as climate action and impede the collaboration needed for meaningful change were not the answer to climate change.	True
On a broader note Im confused.	Weird how everything just so happens to reinforce her political narrative and now shes back with another hot take.	It was because the infrastructure is falling apart.	But making sense isnt a tenant of the climate religion.	The citys communist Mayor Bill de Blasio has run it into the ground with stupid financial decisions and misuse of funds.	True
This report is striking for two reasons.	And secondly it majors on the economic impact in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation.	Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today the 4th National Climate Assessment says.	The warning is at odds with the Trump administration's fossil fuels agenda.	Spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said it was largely based on the most extreme scenario which contradicts long established trends by assuming that... there would be limited technology and innovation and a rapidly expanding population.	False
Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	Theyre often communities of color.	Theyre the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis he said during the CNN town hall.	We know that this climate crisis is going to affect all Americans and all folks around the world but we also know that its going to hit some people particularly hard people that are the first people to get affected he said.	You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities.	True
Yet two years later the company is still battling environmentalists and regulators in the state as the utility seeks to pass the cleanup costs onto ratepayers in the form of a price hike.	Gutting the EPAs rules on coal ash pollution takes some pressure off the utilities but thrusts the industry back into the sort of regulatory uncertainty Pruitt vowed to alleviate.	In a separate legal fight over coal ash the Tennessee Valley Authority the nations biggest public utility last month appealed a federal judges order to clean up decades of coal ash environmentalists say poisoned water in the Volunteer State.	Scrapping the only federal rules on coal ash presents a major problem in the face of storms floods and other extreme weather made more frequent and intense by climate change.	In 2014 Duke Energy one of the countrys biggest power companies spilled nearly 39000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River causing one of North Carolinas biggest environmental disasters in its history.	True
What have we done?	She also said she was unsatisfied with Bidens refusal to bend his 2050 goal.	And the fact of the matter is that what we talk about is what are we going to do about those corporations?	Biden recently came under fire for attending a fundraiser hosted by Andrew Goldman a founder of the natural gas company Western LNG.	And everywhere along the way for example Ive argued and pushed for us suing those executives who are engaged in pollution those companies engaged in pollution he added.	False
No harm no foul.	The rollbacks an international signal that were not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously said Jay Duffy an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force.	Its nothing burger he said.	But its not regulations that are hurting the US coal industry its competition.	But the coal industry argued in court that these technologies are too expensive and immature to deploy at scale so the new standard is too difficult to meet.	True
The New Deal.	Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	Ocasio Cortez said at an event in New York City Monday night.	And what preceded World War II?	The freshman Democrat pointed to a Voxarticlewarning we have just 12 years to limit devastating global warming and a Guardianarticleclaiming we have 12 years to limit climate change catastrophe both articles were based on a United Nations report from October 2018.	True
This apparent change of heart followed legal action filed by green groups part of a cascade of courtroom standoffs that are starting to slow and even reverse the Trump administrations blitzkrieg of environmental regulations.	Ironically for Pruitt who has touted a back to basics approach rooted safely within the confines of the law this rapidly executed agenda has run into a thicket of legal problems causing the administration to admit defeat in several cases.	Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court.	They are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who dont want to follow the rules said Aaron Colangelo the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council.	They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law.	True
The presidential candidate was running more than 45 minutes late and was just beginning to lose his audienceIm starting not to love Pete so much someone remarkedwhen he took the stage.	This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	But where does Buttigieg stand when it comes to implementing an economy wide plan?	First A carbon tax and dividend.	True
He repeatedly misrepresented his own agencys findings about a rule to gut an Obama era power plant regulation inflating the emissions cuts the new proposal would mandate.	It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPAs 15th administrator.	He even mixed up two of the most important climate science reports to come out in the last three months admitting he hadnt fully read the report co authored by researchers at his own agency.	That meeting ended as another photo showed with a hug between Perry and Murray.	Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D R.I. brought out some visual aids to question Wheeler further about his relationship with Murray including a poster sized printout of a photo leaked from a March 2017 meeting between Murray and Energy Secretary Rick Perry where the coal executive provided a detailed wish list of policies to the administration.	True
Violent crimeincluding dangerous gangs over crowded schools the appearance of diseases once vanquished from the western world escalating hospital costs and an overwhelming demand for government services!	The source illegal immigrants.	Asked about his comments and if he still holds his views Pendley said his views were being taken out of context and were irrelevant to his role at BLM.	Islam's war with America started just up the road in Greeley Colorado!	In other comments uncovered during a CNN KFile review of his social media activity writings and public appearances Pendley cited an anti Muslim figure to claim Islam was at war with the United States compared undocumented immigrants to cancer and blamed them for diseases.	True
The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many.	But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association.	Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes.	For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.	WASHINGTON A Trump administration plan to provide older and disabled citizens greater access to national parks by expandingthe use of electric bikes is revving upcriticism from nature advocates who say the policy threatens to disturb pristine trails and poses a safety hazard.	False
Local authorities struggled to respond as demonstrators resorted to violence and vandalism.	These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry.	The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work.	In actuality the protests were anything but peaceful as we reported at the time.	Such biased narratives have bedeviled the Dakota Access Pipeline from the beginning.	True
At the same time NRDC has relentlessly attacked the Trump administration Bishop and Westerman said in their letter to the group.	WRI opposed President Donald Trumps decision to leave the Paris accord in 2017 in a statement that also praised China for committing to the climate agreement.	Given WRIs close ties to the Chinese government its emphasis on cultivating contacts with various U.S. officials is particularly disconcerting in light of the government partnerships and environmental initiatives involving WRI during the Obama Administration they wrote.	RELATED NYT Suggests Global Warming Is To Blame For Roger Federers US Open Defeat Since President Trumps election WRI political activities have turned to influencing state and municipal governments the lawmakers wrote.	Lawmakers want to know if WRIs desire to maintain good relations with the Chinese is affecting the groups U.S. operations and advocacy effectively making it a foreign agent of the communist government.	True
Participating in the deal the president argued puts us at a permanent disadvantage.	PARIS AGREEMENT ON CLIMATE CHANGE WASHINGTON REACTS TO US PULLOUT The Paris accord will undermine our economy Trump said during the announcement in the White House Rose Garden.	Former Vice President Al Gore blasted the decision of President Donald Trump to remove the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement on Thursday calling it reckless and indefensible.	It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	Civic leaders mayors governors CEOs investors and the majority of the business community will take up this challenge Gore said.	True
RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed.	North Carolina Democratic Gov.	Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out thatFlorence formed over abnormally cool ocean waters then weakened over cooler waters the opposite of what forecasters expected.	With historic storms lashing our state we must combat climate change make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters.	Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings.	True
In the late 1990sa crusading attorneysued E.I.	Last May the EPA hosted anational leadership summiton PFAS but the agencys decision to bar reporters from attending sessions and one officials manhandling of an Associated Press reporter overshadowed the event.	du Pont de Nemours and Co. over a massive contamination in Parkersburg West Virginia that killed livestock and sickened and deformed many residents in the rural Appalachian community that surrounded the chemical companys plant.	That set off a chain reaction exposing local contaminations across the country including several in New York State.	After a years long legal battle DuPont divested its Chemours division and the companies reached a670 million agreementto settle 3550 personal injury lawsuits in February 2017.	True
We face a direct existential threat.	Delegations from both countries will attend today's U.N. summit but their positions have diverged.	I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit.	In the U.S. President Trump has threatened to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and his administration has moved to allow greater emissions from power plants vehicles and oil and gas operations.	The summit acts as a kickoff to international climate negotiations in 2020 which is the next deadline for countries to make dramatic emissions reduction promises under the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change.	True
The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems.	This is fuelling climate change and compromising our attempts to feed a growing world population the authors will say.	All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	The warning will come from the awkwardly named IPBES the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans.	Governments have focused on climate change far more than they have focused on loss of biodiversity or land degradation.	True
Here's the issue Pruitt said.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget said climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	Both instead said the focus needs to be on preparedness and resiliency.	Several key administration officials have been on message this week declining to discuss the issue and how to address the causes of global warming and increased greenhouse gas emissions.	Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm Duke responded I you know the data I don't know what it particularly indicates.	True
The article detailed aU.N.	An Associated Press headline from 1989 read Rising seas could obliterate nations U.N. officials.	Before the end of the month 2020 candidates are expected to have another climate forum at Georgetown University.	Earlier this month leading Democratic presidential candidates held a town hall on the issue and warned about the existential threat posed by a changing climate.	Climate Action Summit on Sept. 23an event that promises to spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone.	True
The Sussexes came under fire over the summer after taking a private flight to the home of singer Sir Elton John in Nice.	In September's edition of Vogue edited by Meghan the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature saying We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us and only us.	At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that.	Questions have been asked about the royal couple's use of private jets and their impact following their support of environmental causes.	True
I do not dispute any administration coming in with different policies but the challenge I think we're facing is they are really changing the rules of the road and not using sound science McCarthy said.	There is no serious debate climate change is a severe threat and we ignore science at our own peril.	Given its clear violation of the Clean Air Act I intend to sue the EPA over this Dirty Power rule and look forward to collaborating with other states and cities in taking action to protect all Americans from the increasingly disastrous impacts of climate change James said in a statement.	Connecticut is in close coordination with states across the nation and we are prepared to take legal action to block this measure the state's attorney general William Tong.	At a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing last week about the direction of the EPA former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy who finalized the Clean Power Plan under Obama said she believes the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule as well as other proposed rules the agency has made since Trump took office undermines the science and the law in how they're trying to roll back those rules.	True
Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	I wouldnt even call it compromises.	The Democratic Party has long been dogged by tensions between environmentalists clamoring for action on climate change and labor leaders warning against policies that ostracize the fossil fuel industry which provides high paid construction jobs.	In the meantime the administration has worked hard to further undercut the talks.	That mirrors the Trump administrations aggressive efforts to unwind the few relatively weak climate regulations that exist and to upend fragile negotiations at the 24th Conference of the Parties in Katowice Poland where diplomats this week are struggling to garner support for basic resolutions recognizing the scientific consensus on global warming.	True
But on the other it could put candidates in a difficult position when pressed on the costs and impact on certain jobs and industries.	Our first step is to define the problem and define the scope of the solution Ocasio Cortez told reporters during a Thursday afternoon press conference for her newly introduced proposal which was quickly backed by Democratic presidential hopefuls Senators Kirsten Gillibrand Kamala Harris Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker.	The debate over Medicare for All has already shown the kinds of risks and rewards candidates face.	The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates.	It will make clear who is just using it as a buzzword and who is taking it seriously.	True
For years positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other.	On Wednesday conservatives leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans Stalinism or genocide.	Heather McGhee senior fellow at the progressive think tank Demos A decade of disputation is followed now by this incredible uptick of Republicans looking around for solutions former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. whose support for climate action led to his ouster in a primary challenge in 2010 said at the event where he was the lone Republican.	As her allies are readying primary challenges against Democrats who refuse to join the Green New Deals 100 co sponsors in Congress Ocasio Cortez said You dont necessarily have to replace everybody.	We have this idea that left ideas are moving and shaking inside the political atmosphere right now.	False
In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017.	Asphalt warps and melts.	Concrete if water is involved can sometimes explode or break open.	Kinks can form on train rails when the metal expands.	When temperatures get too high planes get grounded.	True
This is a worldwide issue and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India.	Jerry Brown.	5.	It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change.	CNN Candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination and most scientists say the climate crisis is the existential threat of our time while President Donald Trump once claimed it's a hoax cooked up by the Chinese.	True
Its a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU.	So theres a clear contrast between the right wing populists on the one hand and their leading opponents on the other.	This brand of populism poses a particular challenge for the effort against climate change.	The American and Brazilian leaders are particularly aggressive on the issue but theyre hardly alone among Western right wingers.	You cant propose an effective solution to a transnational problem through a narrowly nationalist framework and yet the nationalists are here attacking both climate policies in their own country and the very idea of global governance itself.	True
The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	But there was one glaring problem The 1970s cover was a hoax.	This climate denier for example	One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers.	McFarland recently tried to get Trump riled up about climate change with a bit of fake news.	True
What they found was Mar a Lago was already in serious trouble.	He has threatened to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord in which countries around the world pledged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to keep temperatures from rising past the critical 2C mark.	President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	True
An activist from the Sunrise Movement a liberal environmental group asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking.	Shes right.	He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying Thats the environmental injustice of racism that were dealing with.	Calling climate change an existential threat a phrase that is sure to come up several more times tonight Mr. Castro said his first move as president would be to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord.	Julin Castro the first 2020 Democratic presidential candidate at the CNN climate town hall set the tone early in the night by giving a shout out to Gov.	False
These conversations come at a particularly fraught time because Trump who does not share his predecessor Barack Obamas commitment to clean energy has been reviewing the United States environmental policies.	Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change.	It seems our attempt failed.	Trump goes after negative press covfefe in botched midnight tweet Duck!	European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker said President Trump doesnt seem to understand that he cant immediately yank the United States out of the Paris Agreement on climate change.	True
Thousands gathered in cities across the globe including London Berlin Tokyo and Washington DC to protest anthropogenic climate change and the purported lack of urgency to address it.	Several climate change activists in D.C. decried the U.S. for its role in contributing to climate change despite the fact that the U.S. has made great strides in reducing its carbon output seeing the largest decline in CO2 emissions in the world for 9th time this century in 2017.	Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday.	However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong.	We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added.	True
Late last month a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a European Climate Declaration to the Secretary General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change.	Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation.	The declarations signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day.	Climate science should be less political while climate policies should be more scientific the declaration stated.	There is no climate emergency.	True
Environmental advocacy groups quickly blasted Pruitt's decision with many vowing to fight the measure in court.	When you think about what that rule meant it was about picking winners and losers.	Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and losers he said at the event.	And Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club said Trump and Pruitt are launching one of the most egregious attacks on public health and climate safety.	When asked earlier this year on Fox News about the health consequences of doing away with the Clean Power Plan Pruitt ducked the question and focused on how the plan would cost jobs.	True
She can be very confusing.	Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity.	No one wants to hear this or actually spend time understanding things Curry said.	The other side of her thinks were foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years.	The climate crisis is real yall Ocasio said on Instagram.	True
We have to think about the whole world.	Because weve got to be working on all fronts.	he asked.	Coasts face unbelievable change.	So heres what really scares me.	True
The RFS has proven to be controversial with oil producers deriding the mandate as costly and unneeded.	RELATED New EPA Chief Will Continue Scott Pruitts War With The Corn Lobby During his time leading the EPA Scott Pruitt became an adversary of ethanol proponents after granting more RFS waivers and pushing for a rollback of the law altogether.	Its not immediately clear how the Trump administration will handle the RFS debate moving forward.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True
OCASIO CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition I'm always going to choose the people of this country.	Watters asked.	During that appearance he indicated that he would have to make himself an opponent of the oil and gas industries'interests.	We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said.	When Ocasio Cortezresponded to O'Rourke's plan she said he didn't have an aggressive enough timeline.	True
The views are their own.	But we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good.	This line of attack however ignores the costs of inaction.	Thus if we want markets to produce more clean innovation we should reward innovators rather than penalize polluters in the hopes that doing so will indirectly induce them to produce innovation.	It is good economics.	True
For opponents of the president the prospect is a daunting one.	Scott Pruitt was the most scandal plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption said Christy Goldfuss an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress.	I wasnt interested in that.	I am still not interested in that.	Pruitt went about it enthusiastically but ran into legal action launched by states such as New York and California as well as environmental groups.	True
The Post also reported the sources claimed the carbon tax proposal is very controversial and that some within the administration are staunchly opposed to it.	Thats why I object to the Democrats as much as to the Republicans.	Opponents of the plan say its another form of socialistic wealth distribution that will dramatically raise energy costs.	According to the group which is led by former Secretaries of State James Baker III and George Shultz and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson their plan would tax fossil fuel companies and redistribute the funds back to Americans in equal portions thereby artificially raising the price of fossil fuels and making renewable energy sources more competitive.	Opponents say energy costs will increase not only because of the tax but also because energy companies will raise prices across the board knowing that all consumers have more money to spend thanks to carbon tax dividends.	True
We need systemic change.	While protests indeed broke out across the globe the protest in D.C. featured a funeral procession to draw attention to the crisis and show that business as usual can not continue.	Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate crisis on the biggest shopping day of the year disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago Illinois and holding a Black Friday Funeral For Future in the nations capital Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts.	Were bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death 17 year old organizer Maddie Graham said.	Well gather on the Southeast lawn of the Capitol to eulogize and mourn all that has been lost and all that is threatened by the climate crisis the events description reads.	True
Im perfectly willing to take on giant corporations.	Its highly explosive.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Its a danger to the air we breathe.	Jay Inslee D ahead of CNNs town hall.	True
As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory.	But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors.	Conservative activists point out theres no deal to be made on trading federal environmental regulations for a carbon tax since Trumps already promised to roll back 75 percent of federal rules.	They argue its not very conservative to back what would essentially amount to a tax on energy which would effectively raise the price of all goods and services.	President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate.	False
But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red versus blue divide.	'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced' Pruitt said.	'Not the cause of it but the things that we observe.'	When Homeland Security Advisor Tom Bossert was asked as he preceded Huckabee Sanders in the briefing he wouldn't talk about climate change's cause.	On Sunday Sen. John McCain R Fla. who has preached bipartisanship in recent months on the heels of his cancer diagnosis told CNN's Jake Tapper that he didn't know why his Republican colleagues were denying climate change adding that it was 'time to sit down.'	True
Conflicts exacerbated by drought heat and storms are a major concern for defense planners.	However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms.	Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them.	I dont know why he said.	Either there was a plan in place to deal with an unprecedented storm at Tyndall and it wasnt followed or there wasnt one and were already seeing the consequences.	True
It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains.	In May I experienced one hotel's efforts firsthand as I stood on the roof at ITC Maurya a hotel in Delhi.	As we use and reuse things it gives us some social engagement status.	This has really helped everybody throughout the food and beverage team and the organization as a whole just to think about what they are doing.	Some resorts are doing their part to address it even when governmental regulations and a general lack of awareness make that difficult.	False
It was only about past events.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event.	Theres no shortage of ideas about how this happens but its not quite clear how they all fit together.	True
After the fighting ended a stalemate remained as international mediation efforts were made to resolve their dispute.	The enmity between the two countries that occupy the Horn of Africa came after a border war fought between 1998 and 2000.	The two countries disputed their border in the scrubby and desolate plains of Badime.	But head activism has led to criticism from from world leaders and others who allege she is being manipulated.	She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth.	True
For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.	HAZARD Ky. AP A coalition of left leaning states and environmental groups are vowing to fight the Trump administration's move to kill an Obama era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal fired power plants.	The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	Closely aligned with the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man made emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	True
If you have a view on what you want to happen well carry it out when you execute it.	Bernhardt who brought with him to the job a slew of potential conflicts of interest from his days as an energy lobbyist also faced tough questions Tuesday about alleged ethics violations.	But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials.	Rep. Betty McCollum D Minn. the subcommittees chair quoted from the U.N. report and told Bernhardt the country is depending on you to help lead the fight along with us to combat these issues including the biodiversity and climate crises.	The hearing was the first of two appearances Bernhardt has before Congress this week to defend the Trump administrations 2020 budget request which calls for a 14 cut in funding for the Department of the Interior.	True
It can be summed up in one word confusion.	Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical.	It was the latest example of the bewilderment Trump has created about whether or not the worlds second biggest source of climate altering pollution plans to do anything about it.	Other history contradicts the idea that the United States signed onto an out of balance deal.	He announced an extreme position but hinted he was willing to negotiate.	False
The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed.	If Paris streets burned over a proposed25 cents per gallon climate change tax imagine the global conflagration over a 49 per gallon tax.	Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers.	Why?	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	True
Joel Clement who resigned from the interior department because he said the administration was muzzling scientists and ignoring climate change effects on vulnerable communities now works with the Union of Concerned Scientists.	And that has changed Graumlich said.	Several other high profile climate advocates were invited by other Democrats protesting against Trumps doubts of the science and his rollbacks.	The Trump administrations strategy is to ignore climate change and pretend it doesnt exist and pretend the science doesnt exist even if its coming from its own agencies Clement said.	Lisa Graumlich the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal.	True
One hardly knows where to begin in taking apart an argument that is literally filled with errors fallacies inconsistencies and non sequiturs.	The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	Perhaps Mr. Schneider should consider what a war on the environment would actually look like.	Pouring toxic waste into rivers filling the air with noxious fumes polluting forests and open countrysidethese are signs of a war on the environment and sadly they can still be found in certain nations.	To judge a particular accord as contrary to the nations interests on the other hand is hardly a war on the environment.	True
With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign.	EPA administrator Scott Pruitt hastaken many steps to roll back or put in loopholes to the Clean Air Act Alexander said adding thattheassociation is concerned and we will continueto fight forhealthy air she said.	Forget the Golden State.	For year round particle pollution Fairbanks Alaska was the most polluted city.	True
Diversity takes millions of years to evolve but can be damaged in the blink of an eye.	Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda.	Changes in ecology may go some way to explain the often strongly asymmetrical fates of sister clades and we test this in the caridean shrimps.	But global warming and rising sea levels threatened to wipe out many species that cannot adapt to change quickly enough in a blink of an eye.	Creatures that have moved into delicate ecosystems such as coral reefs often live in symbiosis with others and are the slowest to recover their diversity if damaged.	False
One of the biggest legal battles over climate change is now in limbo pending a decision from the Supreme Courts chief justice who last week took the odd step of halting the lawsuit to consider a stay.	Now the case is back at the Supreme Court and what happens next is unclear including whether the other justices on the bench will weigh in.	But last week the defendant the US government asked for a stay of the case arguing the costs of litigation would put an undue burden on it.	The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change whereas the childrens case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	False
And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said .	Asked whether he thought climate change was a threat to Florida DeSantis said the issue was politicized but noted that he considers sea level rise a serious threat.	We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	We're going to do what works.	As one of Florida's leading environmental researchers Dr. Frazer understands the unique water issues facing our state and the actions we must take to solve them he said Monday.	False
The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	When the threat arose yesterday people were still doing their activities on the beach and did not immediately run and they became victims he told a news briefing.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque among the buildings damaged.	Indonesia's meteorological agency has been criticised for its response but officials said the waves struck while the warning was in place.	The main road to Palu has been blocked due to a landslide and a key bridge is out of action.	False
Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline.	Boasberg said he will hear arguments on the matter.	The tribe is among four that have challenged the pipeline in court over environmental fears that ETP says are unfounded.	The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice.	The Corps must simply connect the dots he said.	False
They say the president favours development over conservation.	Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?	But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	The rainforest lost 9762 sq km 3769 sq miles of its vegetation between August 2018 and July 2019 Inpe says.	False
However environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement.	In March he told an energy industry conference Interior should not be in the business of being an adversary.	One place weve seen Zinke pick sides is in his response to Californias record wildfires.	He told the conference over lunch our government should work for you according to organizers You can debate what Zinke meant by work for you but many heard it as a pledge of allegiance to the industry.	He was involved in a land deal with the chair of Halliburton which may have violated conflict of interest rules.	False
Environmentalists were obviously outraged by Pruitts decision.	Environmentalists fought to keep the rule in place and Pruitt can expect legal challenges if EPA tries to repeal the ELG rule.	UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act.	Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants.	To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment.	False
Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	A coalition of local environmental groups organized the march to the Arsht Center in Miami where this round of debates is being held with marchers sporting signs calling for a specific climate change debate and pushing for the Green New Deal.	This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off dozens of local activists in Miami Florida held an Underwater Climate Rally calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate.	Melissa Baldwin co organizer of Miami Climate Month which organized the rally says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami they wanted to put a spotlight on climate change because you cant come to Miami without talking about climate change.	False
By withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement to double down on a coal fossil fuel energy agenda Trump has engaged in a unilateral disarmament in the economic arms race that is the transition to clean energy said Michael Mann a climate scientist and professor at Penn State University.	GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS' Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions Sen. Jim Inhofe R Okla. said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016.	President Trump made the decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement because of the unfair economic burden imposed on American workers businesses and taxpayers by U.S. pledges made under the Agreement Pompeo said in a statement.	Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the worlds largest carbon emitter China is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal fired power plant online every 10 days.	The challenge of averting dangerous and irreversible climate change and massive coastal inundation devastating floods and droughts is that much more an uphill climb with Trump's pullout from the Paris agreement.	False
Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	But theres been a change in fire behavior over the last century as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes.	Jerry Brown partnered with state lawmakers to introduce changes to the states policies.	California Democratic Gov.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	False
The resolution does not include a price tag but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars.	A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday the day they introduce the resolution.	Trump who has expressed doubts about climate change also is likely to oppose it.	She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing.	A joint resolution drafted by Ocasio Cortez and Markey sets a goal to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean renewable and zero emission energy sources including dramatic increases in wind and solar power.	False
The town hall featured people across the country who challenged Gore on the issue or asked his thoughts.	I'm just not seeing it.	But Gore's and Ivanka's influence clearly was not enough.	Gore declined to get into the details of his private conversations with Trump but said those conversations had left him with reason to believe Trump would keep the United States in the agreement but added that thankfully his worst fears about the withdrawal were not realized.	Tangier Island gained national prominence after Trump called Eskridge in response to a CNN piece on the town.	False
It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says.	We think that was because one of the females was having trouble giving birth and was in a lot distress he explains.	While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part.	It means that if one pilot whale encounters a problem then it can have an impact on the entire group.	This particular species seems to be very prone to that herd behaviour.	False
Were up against the wire and nobody no politician no agency no industry is stepping up to resolve the climate crisis Mike one of the protesters locked to a flower pot said in a statement.	The protesters were blocking a BNSF train carrying Bakken Crude Oil a highly volatile oil that caused a train to explode in Mosier Oregon last June.	Its time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time.	Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	Protesters locked their arms into large sunflower pots and laid down on train tracks calling on Washington Governor Jay Inslee D to reject the proposed Vancouver Tesoro Savage Oil Terminal and all other proposed fossil fuel infrastructure in the State of Washington the group said in a press release.	False
The studies clash with policy under President Donald Trump who has been rolling back Obama era environmental and climate protections to maximize production of domestic fossil fuels including crude oil already the highest in the world above Saudi Arabia and Russia.	It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor broadly undermine human health damage infrastructure limit the availability of water alter coastlines and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production.	Trump and several members of his cabinet have also repeatedly cast doubt on the science of climate change arguing the causes and impacts are not yet settled.	Trump last year announced his intention to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris Deal agreed by nearly 200 nations to combat climate change arguing the accord would hurt the U.S. economy and provide little tangible environmental benefit.	White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters did not immediately respond to a request for comment.	False
But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry.	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another.	False
The recent personnel shake up across the federal government doesnt bode well for the fight against climate change either.	And some government research grant applications faced extra scrutiny and rejection for mentioning the double C word.	President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases the Clean Power Plan.	Now it looks like were condemned to repeat it.	Its not just rhetoric.	False
The shift from 'future problem'to 'now crisis'is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real world catastrophes.	Reluctant to cross Trump they barely discuss the issue these dayscompared to three years ago according to an analysis of press releases floor statements tweetsand Facebook posts by software firm Quorom.	I think we'll be at a stalemate for the next two years.	Neither alone is going to get it done.	That's a one two punch we need to solve the climate crisis said Conrad Schneider advocacy Director for the Clean Air Task Force a nonprofit organization pushing for carbon emission reduction.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	Meet the trees get to know their superpowers and learn how scientists are trying to protect them.	And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America.	Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate crisis America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles California.	I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued.	False
Its not just the future of the planet thats at stake here.	Which means that the White Houses move to repeal the Clean Power Plan is a one two punch to human health and the environment said Georges Benjamin executive director of the American Public Health Association.	For the White House bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters.	But whats largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact peoples health.	Health isnt a big part of the conversation about Trump administration assault on climate change mitigation policies but it needs to be.	False
He says times are tough for dairy farmers so this gives him a new stream of revenue.	So here's one solution to the problem Dairy farmers in Massachusetts are using food waste to create electricity.	It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region.	This turns a big generator which is creating one megawatt of electricity continuously Melnik says enough to power more than just his farm.	which has installed a Grind2Energy system.	False
Trumpcampaigned on a promise to withdraw the U.S.from the accord saying it would lead to higher energy prices and hurt domesticbusinesses from being able to compete globally.	California Gov.	Withdrawal from the agreement marks a critical step in unraveling former President Obamas destructive legacy Needham said.	We're on the field ready for battle and while our president may be AWOL in the battle against climate change we're not.	Were moving forward.	False
Politics is downstream from culture is an aphorism the late conservative iconoclast Andrew Breitbart was famous for coining He believed that in the end the people who win elections are the ones telling the best stories and controlling the narrative on any issue.	In a CNN interview last month Ruffalo directly linked the issues around PFAS to alleged attempts by government to hide science surrounding fossil fuels not to mention Exxon and climate change.	The Exxon case shows that the agenda of the left wing groups behind Dark Waters is a moving target one always guided by the trial lawyers laser like focus on the deepest pocketbook.	A clear giveaway is that the movie begins with the disclaimer inspired by true events rather than the more commonly used based on a true story.	The case dragged on for years until DuPont and Chemours Company which spun off from DuPont settled some 3500 injury lawsuits for a total of 671 million.	False
Every Earth Day we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues.	Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference.	That gap between the Lefts loud talk and their unwillingness to make personal sacrifices is not an accident.	In a video that was shared widely including by celebrities such as James Corden the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the big structural political economic stuff.	Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day bluster George Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self righteous without making any real sacrifice.	False
One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use.	He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation.	In response to a question from Priya Subberwal a New York University student Mr. ORourke made clear that he prefers cap and trade over a straight tax on carbon.	I reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon he said.	Mr. ORourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas.	False
On Earth Day thousands of scientists students and research advocatesmarched around the world in protest of Trump's research budget cuts.	In a flurry of other tweets he criticized President Obama for prioritizing the environment over other issues such as 'ISIS and Ebola.'	By comparison last year President Obama's message in 2016 took on an urgent tone and said 'Human activity is disrupting the climate and the challenge of combating climate change is one that will define the contours of our time.'	Our work is not done.'	This point was reiterated later in a somewhat defensive tweet.	False
Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes respect of indigenous land sustainable agriculture protecting biodiversity environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy said 17 year old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar.	But his idea of what that means is very different than the activists' vision.	Graves got immediate push back from the young activists including 17 year old Jamie Margolin from Seattle who asked how Graves will respond to questions from his children and grandchildren about whether he did enough to address climate change.	There have been similar student events in the past year.	I'm bothered by the lack of movement to make meaningful advances to solve the climate crisis says Lufrano Jardine.	False
Questions posed to candidates on Wednesday varied and not all were asked about public land and conservation.	During CNNs marathon town hall on climate change Wednesday candidates vowed to end oil gas and coal leasing on federal land as part of a shared goal to decarbonizing the economy and prevent catastrophic warming.	We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday.	Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps.	Ive connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change.	False
Pitting important environmental goals against working families who rely on affordable American energy is a false choice the organization said.	OCASIO CORTEZ 'THERE'S NO DEBATE' THAT FOSSIL FUEL PRODUCTION SHOULD STOP We are going to end the greed of the fossil fuel industry and move to 100 renewable energy he tweeted in an attack on natural gas.	That turned into a federal lawsuit alleging the oil giant defrauded its shareholders with its messaging on climate change.Schneiderman resigned in 2018 amid allegations of physical abuse but legal battles continued to swirl around the company.	His comments were the latest in progressive politicians'long line of attacks on big corporations and their role in climate change.	The American Petroleum Institute a trade association for the oil and gas industry responded to Sanders in a statement to Fox News.	False
The meeting was just the latest in a series of public moves the pope has made against traditional forms of electricity production.	Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change.	That is more than 21000 in income loss per family a portion of the letter read.	Ernest Moniz who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration took part in the summit and said one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low carbon system.	Pope Francishosted a two day summit at the Vatican on June 8 and 9 inviting key players in the oil and gas industry for a back and forth discussion on climate change.	False
Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	But look I dont want to debate global warming because a its boring to me b you get screamed at by people who act like we have seconds to act before the world ends and c you or at least I also get screamed at by people who insist its all a complete hoax.	Etc.	not believing in science because recent hurricanes have been bad and climate change is causing it and blah blah blah.	People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs people who deny that a fetus is a whole human people who insist fetal pain is a myth people who get outraged by claims that say men cant get pregnant.	False
'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket and you make them put it back in they're not going to be happy.	I happen to disagree strongly with him on this particular issue.'	It was about U.S. money going to other countries.'	And that's what's happening here' he said.	There's no reason to make one agreement connect with another' Ross said using the Trans Pacific Partnership as Exhibit A.	False
She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industrys license to operate.	Amrons admission will likely create challenges forthe citys appeal which is slated to begin in front of the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals soon.	Manufacturers and conservative groups worry trial attorneys are behind the spat of climate litigation.	Neither Amron nor New York Citys Law Department have responded to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for an explanation about the lawsuit is designed to hammer the oil industry or for mitigation purposes.	Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said.	False
The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell.	Curbelo is one of thefounders of the Climate Solutions Caucus a bipartisangroup in Congress ostensibly committedto fighting global warming but restricted in practice by the reliance ofits 45 Republicanmembers on support from oil and gas firms.	While he broke ranks this summer to express his support for a carbon tax as a possible way to combat climate change more than 30 of Curbelos Republican colleagues on the caucus supported a symbolic measure that disavowed a carbon tax.	Last December he joined caucus members in a budget vote that would have openedup 1.5 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas drillingMother Jonesreported at the time.	In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money.	False
However there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers.	Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes?	Blowing from east to west across Africa the winds form clusters of thunderstorms once the waves of air have enough moisture lift and instability.	This is when atmospheric conditions are only marginally conducive if at all for tropical storm formation.	Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Andrew began life as tropical waves off the coast of west Africa.	False
They've got to get an answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences warns Ornstein.	Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December.	J. Scott ApplewhiteAP hide caption toggle caption J. Scott ApplewhiteAP Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December.	J. Scott ApplewhiteAP For a nonbinding resolution with an uncertain future the Green New Deal Green New Deal FINAL is getting a lot of attention along with a decidedly mixed reaction.	They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.	False
Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts.	While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement.	The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer familythe billionaire megadonors whogave more than 15 million to Trumps 2016 campaign.	News of Happers departure comes one day after the resignation of his boss national security adviser John Bolton.	False
Nothing.	Their answers and reactions to them foreshadowed the fight ahead with conservatives and industry regardless of who becomes the next president.	The event was perhaps the longest stretch of primetime television ever dedicated to climate change held after the Democratic National Committee refused to sanction an official climate debate between candidates and amid unprecedented pressure from young activists and the Democratic voting base to tackle the climate crisis.	Democrats vying for president revealed a fundamental split over how aggressively the US should tackle climate change in a seven hour town hall meeting on Wednesday.	With many questions focused on what candidates would ask Americans to sacrifice Elizabeth Warren pushed back on the framing.	False
Do you know what?	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	Even you.	However he says that by 2100 the world may have tipped into unknown territory.	Second Rothman appears to have given himself so much margin for error as to render his doomsday projection meaningless.	False
A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some.	It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.	Under this scenario meeting a 2C limit would be harder than anticipated.	Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary.	False
Who loses out?	Published with permission of The American Independent.	In one instance about research on rice the agency tried to dissuade a research partner the University of Washington from publicly discussing research.	The intent is to try to suppress a message in this case the increasing danger of human caused climate change said Michael Mann a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University.	In May career government economists accused Perdue and his agency of retaliating against them for their reports showing that Trump's tax and farm subsidy policies are hurting the very rural voters he promised to help.	False
Then he said decide and history will judge the decisions.	Weeks later Mr. Trump pulled out of the agreement.	First up the paper featured more odd respect for religion from its colorful left wing reporter Jason Horowitz in Pope in the Air Puts Foot Down on Climate Change Denial and DACA Reversal.	But in Washington where science is increasingly political the fact that oceans and atmosphere are warming and that the heat is propelling storms into superstorms has become as sensitive as talking about gun control in the wake of a mass shooting.	When the Times doesnt challenge a pro life message better read closely.	False
While the bill has little chance of passing it is intended to spark a debate over carbon pricing as the Democratic Party prepares to take over the lower chamber of Congress.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Much like the new bipartisan bill Curbelos was doomed to fail from the beginning and he endured attack ads from the right for even introducing it.	RELATED A Growing Number Of Democrats Are Signing On To Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal Republicans Fitzpatrick and Rooney both members of the Climate Solutions Caucus survived their re elections and both will continue to work with Democrats on various climate change bills in the next legislative session.	False
NRDC and other environmental groups were already locked in legal battles to keep the power plant rule from being overturned.	Theyare living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office namely to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies.	The same day Earthjustice and the Center for Biological Diversity CBD filed suits to challenge the administration.	CBD famously sued the Department of Homeland Security DHS to stop the construction of a wall on the U.S. Mexico border.	The group filed at least two lawsuits in April challenging Trumps delaying energy efficiency standards for appliances and the administrations refusal to ban certain pesticides.	False
We would work it out.	No.	They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe.	Its highly explosive.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	False
So whats actually in it?	The deal shall ensure a just transition for all workers low income communities communities of color indigenous communities rural and urban communities and the front line communities most affected by climate change pollution and other environmental harm including by ensuring that local implementation of the transition is led from the community level.	Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	Its scope and mandate for legislative authority amounts to a radical grant of power to Washington over Americans lives homes businesses travel banking and more.	Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	False
Its a challenging issue.	Its bloody combat.	But as Newsoms term in Sacramento approaches its fifth month many of these groups are losing patience as the governor tries to balance a clean energy agenda with the demands of an industry that supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in a state with around 26 million vehicles on the road.	Im taking a very pragmatic look at it in scoping this Newsom told The Los Angeles Times recently.	But at what cost is this being done especially when nobody else is doing anything.	False
The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed.	If Paris streets burned over a proposed25 cents per gallon climate change tax imagine the global conflagration over a 49 per gallon tax.	Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers.	Why?	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	False
Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence.	This is total nonsense.	Either way you should stick to what the best available science says not the fear mongering of anti conservative zealots.	As Roy Spencer Ph.D. an acclaimed climate scientist who previously worked for NASA recently stated The fact that there has been no long term change in global hurricane activity and even a 50 percent decrease in U.S. landfalling major hurricanes over the last 80 years means no one is complicit in these storms.	False
Okay.	Okay.	Okay?	This week Bernie met Britta.	Britta is concerned about climate change in particular you nasty vile carnivores out there.	False
