Meanwhile our ruling class continues to fly to climate change summits on private jets own multiple CO2 emitting homes and advocate for unrestricted trade with pollution world champ China.	An aging populace with fewer young people producing tax revenue means a crisis for public services and a shrinking economy.	Progressive political elites have decided that in order to save the environment ordinary citizens must submit to radical lifestyle changes while those same elites fly around the world on private jets and enrich themselves from trade with China the worlds biggest polluter.	Looks like China despite its pollution does have something to offer the environmental movement the one child policy!	Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone!	False
The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The bordersis an ecological theatre where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The borderis an ecological theater where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	'A multitude of factors climatic conditions topography geological history soil types converge to create an amazing mosaic of ecosystems.'	'A multitude of factors climatic conditions topography geological history soil types converge to create an amazing mosaic of ecosystems.'	True
The Trump administration has held the biggest lease sale of oil and gas in US history.	People need jobs the Gulf Coast states need revenue and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil.	US crude oil output has grown by more than 20 percent since mid 2016.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry said Kristen Monsell oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity.	True
They call for a bold and drastic change in economic growth to slash greenhouse gas emissions which research shows contributes to climate change.	The crisis touches every aspect of our lives.	The world must wake up.	Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	Biologists ecologists more the Massachusetts Democrat said in a Nov. 6 tweet.	False
Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement.	It described the sector which includes some 60 miles of the U.S. Mexico border as an area of high illegal entry for which there is an immediate need to improve current infrastructure and construct additional border barriers and roads.	So far very little funding has been secured for the walls estimatedcost of upwards of 70 billion a tab Trump insists Mexico will eventually pay for.	Trumps wall is a divisive symbol of fear and hatred and it does real harm to the landscape and communities.	Among the lengthy list of laws it will waive are the National Environmental Policy Act a 1969 law requiring federal agencies to complete environmental assessments of their projects the Endangered Species Act the Migratory Bird Conservation Act and the Clean Air Act.It is likely a sign of how the administration which has worked swiftly to roll back a slew of environmental regulations plans to fulfill Trumpspledgefor a great great wall on the nearly 2000 mile southern border.	False
President Trump says hes pulling out of the Paris climate agreement.	He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States.	It deals specifically with reducing greenhouse gas emissions particularly carbon dioxide CO2 with the stated objective of combatting global warming.	My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord.	False
It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate.	False
What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency.	The 3ppm CO2 growth rate in 2015 and 2016 is extreme double the growth rate in the 1990 2000 decade Prof Euan Nisbet from Royal Holloway University of London told BBC News.	The largest increase was in the previous El Nio in 1997 1998 and it was 2.7ppm and now it is 3.3ppm it is also 50 higher than the average of the last ten years.	It is urgent that we follow the Paris agreement and switch rapidly away from fossil fuels there are signs this is beginning to happen but so far the air is not yet recording the change.	It may be a climate change feedback.	True
California Gov.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Its bad and how we counteract it is with a climate summit with normal people respecting the truth and communicating that with other normal people and combating the President of the United States in what are lies distortions and quite frankly bizarre behavior.	Browns criticism of Trump appears to have fallen on deaf ears at the White House as the administration announced on Tuesday that it was rolling back an Obama era rule meant to curb climate changing pollution and easing restrictions on energy companies that allow huge volumes of natural gas to escape after drilling it from U.S. lands.	But there is perhaps no area where California has been more combative against the White House agenda than the environment.	False
Technology could help here too.	It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	Eco tourism is a growing trend that resorts are seeking to exploit around the world as people seek to make more responsible choices in the face of climate change.	Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando who was keen that it should become an ecological haven it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet.	The team's eventual aim is to capture the atoll's whole ecosystem from molecule upwards so it can help local governments and communities evaluate future risks and make better decisions.	False
We have to work within the systems we have and make sure we are not destroying our economy at the same time were moving to a lower carbon economy Murkowski said.	As it stands now the Green New Deal is a non binding resolution with a series of broad goals for fighting global warming including net zero greenhouse gas emissions retrofitting every building expanding high speed rail universal health care and job guarantees.	Theres no such thing as a new green deal West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin said during a Monday night panel at an international energy conference in Houston.	Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all.	Many Democrats including 2020 presidential hopefuls back the Green New Deal which was introduced by Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Democratic Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey in early February.	True
Were a big region in terms of geography.	There are about 1000 people in Region 5 and it has the most industrial regions of all of the EPA the employee who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal told HuffPost.	Mikulka the EPA employees union president said shuttering Region 5 would be an effective way to hobble an agency whose mission is largely at odds with the Trump administrations deregulation orientedanti climate protection stance.	How are they going to get there?	My question is Why us?	False
Lets take a look at how they intend to use it.	Gun control is perhaps the most widely known and publicized issue of the 2019 election.	Senate Bill No.	Section G of House Bill No.	The bill reads in calendar year 2036 and every calendar year thereafter 100 percent of the electricity sold by a retail electric supplier is required to be generated from clean energy resources.	False
Chief executive Odd Arild Grefstad cited the growth of renewable energy in U.S. states such as Texas New York and California as signs that the world has started the transition from fossil to a renewable economy.	Norway's largest pension fund with 53 billion euro 59.5 billion in assets under its management said it would continue to invest in renewable energy despite the American president's decision saying in a statement that Donald Trump is jumping off a train that has already left the station.	Canete also predicted that the EU would seek new alliances from the world's largest economies to the most vulnerable island states as well as U.S. businesses and individuals supportive of the accord.	Wherever we live whoever we are we all share the same responsibility make our planet great again Macron added.	French President Emmanuel Macron German Chancellor Angela Merkel and and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentilonisaid in a joint statement that they regretted the United States' decision to withdraw from the accord but affirmed our strongest commitment to implement its measures and encouraged all our partners to speed up their action to combat climate change.	False
If the human race wants a future that looks like utopia and not dystopia it needs to address such concerns Lagarde said predicting that in 50 years time oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence.	In June President Donald Trump announced the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord arguing that it was a deeply flawed document that put American workers at an economic disadvantage.	Ms. Lagarde is no stranger to exaggerated predictions having proposed in 2016 that a Brexit victory would lead to 500000 job losses while suggesting that Brexit voters are narrow minded and calling for a united Europe.	Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide three times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence.	As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	False
More President Trump on dire economic forecast of climate change report 'I don't believe it' More Once Democrats take charge of the House addressing climate change will become top priority again	In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time Trump called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation.	It isnt just a coincidence that this is no longer the reality in our country.	The 2015 definition crafted under President Barack Obama would narrow considerably under Trump a move that Wheeler told reporters wouldmake it clearer and easier to understand ... that will result in significant cost savings protect the nation's navigable waterways and reduce barriers to important economic and environmental projects.	waterways and pose far reaching effects on the safety of the nation's tap water for more than 100 million Americans.	False
Two years ago he announced the United States would withdraw from a global pact to reduce carbon emissions the Paris Climate Agreement a deal Trump said could damage the U.S. economy.	Trump has slammed the idea saying it would kill millions of jobs and crush the dreams of the poorest Americans.	The divide will play into the 2020 election as Democratic hopefuls seek to sell aggressive proposals to reduce or even end fossil fuel consumption by drawing links between climate change and recent floods storms and wildfires.	The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming including disputes over its existence have grown deep roots distorting the way Americans view the world around them.	The ReutersIpsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3281 people.	False
We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities.	Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	The Peoples Climate Movement takes to the streets on Saturday April 29th shedding light on the intertwined destinies of clean energy and employment in the United States and around the world.	Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change.	Our communities to quote environmental justice advocate Majora Carter are the canaries in the coal mine We have already begun to experience climate disruption by virtue of where we live and work and we have always been on the front lines of pollution.	False
When the air we breathe and the water we drink are imminently threatened so that corporations can make more money life liberty and the pursuit of happiness are on the line.	Robert A. Franek is a part of Politicus Policy Discussion in which writers draw connections between real lives and public policy.	Securing the long term future of civil rights for LGBT people womens access to heath care and the flourishing of our environment that we may all enjoy life liberty and the pursuit of happiness rests not only on getting to the bottom of the Trump Russia scandal and draining the swamp in his administration along with the scandal covering right denying profit seeking in Congress but also on preventing the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.	Without a habitable environment that is safe from toxic waste harmful chemicals and dangerous carbon dioxide emissions leading to an ever warming planet how can anyone be assured of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness?	Amid the billowing smoke of the Trump Russia scandal both Donald Trump and the Republicans in Congress have found time to further their agenda of stripping the civil rights away from LGBT people taking healthcare away from women and assuring that scientific data be kept away from the Environmental Protection Agency.	False
Answer my question why will you not say that climate change is caused by carbon dioxide?	Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday.	While man is having an effect on climate he said most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in.	His response is in stark contrast to overwhelming scientific consensus based on facts which says human activity specifically greenhouse gas emissions is the primary driver of global warming.	she pressed.	True
Department of Homeland Security.	We're building a wall between here and Mexico.'	'It's time to stop Trump's hateful bombast and his executive overreach here in San Diego before it goes any further.	He's a Mexican.	At the time he told CNN'We are building a wall.	True
The projectcould harm with the regions economy potentially creating problems fora nearbyU.S.	The base pump 200 million a year into the region and employs over 2600 people.	We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how were going to contribute.	They dont want their areas turned into industrialized zones.	Andrew Cuomos support.	False
In addition to bringing supplies of affordable energy to consumers for decades to come developing our abundant offshore resources can provide billions in government revenue create thousands of jobs and will also strengthen our national security it said in a statement.	He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time.	Erik Grafe an attorney with Earthjustice welcomed the ruling saying it shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans wildlife and climate.	In 2015 Mr. Obama halted exploration in coastal areas of the Beaufort and Chukchi seas and the Hanna Shoal an important area for walrus.	Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans.	True
Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research.	For the two decades following the Exxon Valdez disaster the company worked quietly to safeguard its operations and infrastructure against steadily rising sea levels and thawing permafrost The LA Times wrote.	Wassermanwrote an op edin January for the California paper fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxons climate research.	TheFund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News but hasno involvement in articles they produce the papers disclosure notes.	RFF has single handedly financially propped up the anti Exxon campaign.	True
Launched in 1997 and now finally running low on fuel Cassini is drawing ever closer to its demise.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article.	A liquid ocean exists beneath the icy surface of Enceladus which is barely 300 miles 500 kilometers across.	A spacecraft under development called the Europa Clipper to launch sometime in the 2020s could shed more light on the matter.	False
Jobs matter!	Trump maintains that his policies will both protect the environment and help spur job growth.	Three hours later Trump added I am committed to keeping our air and water clean but always remember that economic growth enhances environmental protection.	In that order which is titled Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth Trump pulled back from the Obama era Clean Power Plan and lifted a 14 month moratorium on new coal leases issued to developers seeking to mine on federal lands.	Were going to have safety were going to have clean water were going to have clean air but so many regulations are unnecessary so many are job killing Trump said in March.	True
Once a vague term for clean energy stimulus the Green New Deal re emergedin the political discourse in mid 2018.	A cadre of left wing Democratic candidates began using it to describe plans to spend trillions of dollars on a national industrial strategy to zero out fossil fuel emissions and power the country with 100 percent renewables in a decade.	are expected to unveil this week does just that calling on the nation to promote the international exchange of technology expertise products funding and services with the aim to reclaim U.S. leadership on climate change to help other countries achieve a Green New Deal.	We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path said Shimkus who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science.	After failing to persuade House Democratic leaders to establish a select committee on a Green New Deal she began work on a sweeping new resolution outlining a transformative policy to guarantee high wage clean energy jobs to millions of Americans and upgrade the nations crumbling infrastructure to withstand already unavoidable extreme weather and sea level rise.	False
Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent.	Republican President Donald Trump has rolled back U.S. climate change rules he views as damaging to the economy and announced plans to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement an international accord to limit global warming.	She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe.	Her biggest environmental victory according to green groups came in 2016 when a grand jury indicted Plains All American Pipeline on criminal charges related to a 2015 oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara.	Reuters U.S. presidential hopeful Kamala Harris campaign is finalizing a plan to tackle climate change that will center on cracking down on fossil fuel companies and protecting poor neighborhoods from the worst impacts of global warming according to two sources familiar with the matter.	True
Im sure theres giant corruption going on.	There is global warming.	So saysJames Lovelock 98 one of the worlds pre eminent environmentalists in a wide ranging interview on todays Delingpole podcast for Breitbart.	The solution he argues is nuclear power which has had a terrible press because of green propaganda most likely funded by fossil fuel industries.	But the stupid bloody academics screwed it up he says now meaning that they got their sums wrong and exaggerated the speed with which the planet is warming.	False
And so around the worldexcept in Trudeaus Canadanations are once again turning back to inexpensive coal rather than pouring more money into costly renewables and coal plants are being built at five times the rate that old plants are being decommissioned.	With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion.	The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia.	According to the analyst popular opinion against German Chancellor Angela Merkels Energiewende energy transition policies which had doubled electricity prices played no small part in Merkels terrible showing in last months national elections.	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts.	True
That move gives Californians access to unemployment assistance food aid and legal and mental health counseling and makes federal financial assistance available to cities and counties that will have to repair billions of dollars worth of infrastructure damage.	It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	President Donald Trump tweeted Sunday that a series of deadly wildfires hitting California are 'being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized.'	Trump complained that the water is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean and called for clearing forests as a means of stopping fires from spreading.	But the president's claim about water drew a combination of laughing and head scratching on Sunday although years of drought may be one factor in the fires' quick spread.	False
Annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states the report says.	The National Climate Assessment which is mandated by law every few years and is based on more than 1000 previous research studies details how global warming from the burning of coal oil and gas is hurting each region of the United States and how it impacts different sectors of the economy including energy and agriculture.	Climate change is transforming where and how we live and presents growing challenges to human health and quality of life the economy and the natural systems that support us the report says.	Gore left the vice presidents residence with a relatively modest net worth of 1.7 million mostly from family farm assets but since the release of his 2006 documentary An Inconvenient Truth and his continuing global tour to preach his message he has amassed a fortune valued at upward of 200 million.	Unbelievably deadly and tragic wildfires rage in the West hurricanes batter our coasts and the Trump administration chooses the Friday after Thanksgiving to try and bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis Gore said in a statement that he posted on Twitter Friday.The president may try to hide the truth but his own scientists and experts have made it as stark and clear as possible.	True
Thats equivalent to a gas tax as high as 1.70 per gallon in 2030 to nearly 19 per gallon at the end of the century.	The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	While the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 degree Celsius consistent pathways a complementary mix of stringent policies is required reads the IPCCs report.	California and many European countries have policies to price carbon dioxide emissions and mandate green energy including cap and trade systems and carbon taxes.	The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	True
the former secretary of state asked.	So how do you get a bachelor of arts in science?	Why would he have to have a secret analysis of climate change?	Massie asked.	It sounds like youre questioning the credentials of the presidents advisers but I dont think we should question your credentials today.	False
As president Ill protect those benefits that fossil fuel workers have earned.	Ill work with Congress to reinstate and then triple the Superfund tax generating needed revenue to clean up the mess.	We need a government thats on the side of familiesnot giant corporations polluting our communities.	In this instance it is the Superfund Waste Tax.	As Ive traveled this country Ive heard the human stories from frontline communities.	False
Experts say that climate change in the region is exacerbating and sometimes causing a miasma of other problems including crop failures and povertyThe Guardian reported in October.	People from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood.	The collapse in coffee bean prices has made growing it less profitable forcing migrants to hit the road.	Migrants are fleeing violent corrupt countries with poor economies but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame.	The Guardian also noted that federal data showed a surge in outward migration from western Honduras a prime coffee producing area.	True
We are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	Entire ecosystems are collapsing.	Trump has nixed dozens of Obama administration environmental regulations calling them deadly to the economy much to the outrage of climate activists.	A faction among the Democrats has since proposed a Green New Deal that would eliminate carbon emissions altogether and reorder the US economy entirely warning that otherwise the world would end in 12 years.	While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom.	True
Related 250 dead 91 billion in damages 2018 was a catastrophic year for U.S. weather 4th warmest for globe Related Green New Deal Why the GOP secretly likes Democrats' climate change plan Related Climate combat Democrats say Pentagon puts troops at risk by downplaying global warming Trump has touted environmental deregulation and his abandonment of Obama era steps to confront climate change as pillars of his America First economic agenda that has helped spur growth and lift the financial markets.	In early Februaryprogressive Democrats unveiled their Green New Deal to remake the American economy into a social justice model focused on clean energy.	The report is a comprehensive scientificallyrigorouslyanalysisand assessmentif the availableinformationprimarily from the U.S. government Freilich said.	But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election.	John Kasich who ran against Trump in 2016 is expected to say at a speech Tuesday at the University of British Columbia.	True
The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obamas legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy.	Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	Obamas plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.	The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement.	True
It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state funded green energy projects.	Sixty seven percent of New Yorkers support strengthening enforcement of clean air and water regulations even if it costs U.S. jobs compared to 58 percent nationwide.	Three weeks ago over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhousethe governor made a deal to disband the Independent Democratic Conference known as the IDC.	In 2015 Al Gore joined the governor as he announced plans to cut the states greenhouse gases emissions 40 percent by 2030.	Heather McGhee president of the left leaning think tank Demos and the economist Robert Reich called it the most progressive climate equity policy weve seen.	True
This means more money in our coffers and less greenhouse gas in our atmosphere.	By producing energy in the United States and limiting pollution were making the world safer.	As a just published report from the intelligence community details climate change is a major military issue acting as a threat multiplier which creates the conditions and food scarcity for example breed instability and conflict.	The more we produce the less our European allies have to rely on Russian gas for their power supply.	Extreme weather events made worse by climate change disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism.	False
They worship at the altar of nihilistic capitalism.	As climate change accelerates and the planet hurdles ever closer to an existential crisis Trump went to a United Nations conference to tout the benefits katowice climate talks cop24.html of fossil fuels.	We are left with no other alternatives.	The job of the next president will be to undo the damage Trump has wrought.	Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctity of fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people.	False
Stop rolling back fuel auto standards.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.	Your destructive environmental policy is what causes climate change.	Fix the EPA dont dismantle it.	Be the solution not the problem.	False
Climate was the No.	Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin.	On Wednesday she published an op ed outlining how shed target fossil fuel companies and reverse President Donald Trumps assault on environmental regulations during her first 100 days in the White House.	Last week Warren unveiled her Blue New Deal the first comprehensive campaign proposal to revitalize coastal economies by fortifying ports spurring new markets for seafood and completely overhauling the offshore energy industry.	Sanders by contrast has released a 16.3 trillion megaproposal for a Green New Deal that includes everything from creating a public option for electricity to spending nearly 15 billion to encourage worker owned grocery stores.	False
Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	We have just 59 days to do our part to save our children from an endless cycle of crop killing droughts one year and rivers spilling their banks the next Inslee tweeted in January.	Washingtonians are ready to see their elected leaders step up to prevent further harm to our forests our air and our communities.	There is no other option than victory because without victory there is not survival Inslee said at a press conference Monday.	False
In order to unleash the power of the American economy our government must encourage production of American energy.	President Trump acted in America's best interest moving away from a flawed agreement that placed too heavy a burden on American jobs and opening the door to a new agreement that reaches the right balance.	The decision by the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change is a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security.	The Secretary General remains confident that cities states and businesses within the United States along with other countries will continue to demonstrate vision and leadership by working for the low carbon resilient economic growth that will create quality jobs and markets for 21st century prosperity.	Future generations will look back on President Trump's decision as one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing.	True
Alabamas inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging experts say.	Nationally the waste and recycling industry generates more than 93 billion in gross revenue annually said Brandon Wright a spokesman for the National Waste Recycling Association.	Its easy for them to zip into a rural or poor community and set up shop and start making a ton of cash he said.	PARRISH Ala. AP A stinking trainload of human waste from New York City is stranded in a tiny Alabama town spreading a stench like a giant backed up toilet and the poop train is just the latest example of the South being used as a dumping ground for other states waste.	It was turned away by North Carolina Alabama Mississippi Louisiana Texas Florida Mexico Belize and the Bahamas.	False
Spokesman Saviano Abreu added that the situation in the northern towns of Macomia and Quissanga was critical while there were also worries for the cut off island of Ibo.	On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term.	It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go.	We managed to send one flight with World Food Programme WFP supplies of rice and biscuits and some non food items Mr Abreu told news agency AFP.	Already Pemba the regional capital of Cabo Delgado state has experienced more than 2m 6.5ft of rain and flooding.	False
Along with the oil companies the plans corporate backers include Johnson Johnson Unilever PepsiCo and Procter Gamble.	A tax and dividend plan would cut American carbon pollution even as the Trump administration withdraws from the Paris climate accord the group says.	In a statement the current chief executive of Exxon Mobil Darren W. Woods said the company was encouraged by the climate groups proposal which aligns closely with our longstanding principles.	Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking Steven Chu a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama Michael R. Bloomberg the former New York mayor and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata.	In 2009 the companys chief executive Rex W. Tillerson who is now secretary of state called carbon taxes a more direct a more transparent and a more effective approach than a cap and trade proposal Congress was considering at the time.	True
The U.S. has become a much richer country.	Because that wealth allows us to take care of people.	I want a wealthy country.	The president on Monday cited the expansion of energy exports under his administration and the opening of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as ways he has made the country more prosperous.	During the climate meeting leaders approved a 20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G 7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron US France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said.	True
Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy.	Supporters point outthe project would create more than 500 jobs and pump millions into the local economy over the turbines 25 year lifespan.	They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation the company behind the project also argues it would be a step forward for environmentally friendly energy production.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	True
The government encouraged mining and drilling while knowing full well the hazards caused by burning these fuels namely climate change.	They described the injunction request as an ambitious attempt to throttle important government functions superintending broad swaths of the national economy.	Numerous experts including retired Navy Vice Admiral Lee Gunn economist Joseph Stiglitz and climate scientist Eric Rignot have also filed amicus briefs supporting the injunction against new federal fossil fuel development.	The suit alleges that not only did the federal government fail to act to limit climate change it profited off of selling coal oil and gas rights.	But if they succeed they could set critical precedents lead to billion dollar payouts and radically reshape the effort to limit global warming.	True
Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models.	To prepare for the next hurricane the U.S. needs the best weather forecasts evacuation plans and leadership.	These plans should be built on sound science not speculation overselling or exaggeration.	As soon as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma made landfall in the U.S. scientists politicians and journalists began to discuss the role of climate change in natural disasters.	Hurricane science in this political climate already has enough spin.	True
California Gov.	Is there a drought?	Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture.	Hes likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt an endangered fish.	RELATED NYT Claims Global Greening From CO2 Is Terrible Gets Owned State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding California.	False
That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost.	The permafrost that covers great swaths of Siberia northern Canada Alaska and Greenland is warming twice as fast as other parts of the planet and could be gone by midcentury causing more warming and releasing gigatonnes of carbon dioxide and methane.	He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate near surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century.	When permafrost melts microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide causing even more warming.	False
Theres not enough money in the world to pay for that Kennedy said.	Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society.	Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests.	It hasnt been on my finance agenda or banking agenda Scott said referring to the Senate committees he serves on and the issues on which he focuses his attention.	Coming from a top oil producing stateInhofe has long railed against the IPCC as a biased left wing organization.	True
That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible.	However he pointed to one alarming trend The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering after the end of the last ice age.	We had not expected to find anything like that number.	He set up the project with the help of Bingham.	We were amazed Bingham said.	True
House Democrats ran on and won on our bold campaign for a 1 trillion investment in our infrastructure that will make our communities more resilient to the climate crisis while creating 16 million new good paying jobs across the country Pelosis statement read.	Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy.	California is burning.	We're running out of time to act.	We'll pass a win the solutions we need.	False
As California edges out the United Kingdom to become the fifth largest economy in the world with the state unemployment rate at historic lows sound budgeting and a robust social safety net weve proven that strong climate and clean air policies can go hand in hand with economic growth.	In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best.	We need all of these tools to be able to reduce pollution drive technological innovation create jobs and expand economic growth all while keeping costs stable for consumers and businesses.	It sends a price signal to industries to reduce their carbon pollution while generating billions of dollars in revenue for investments in clean transportation and direct pollution reduction.	Weve turned clean energy into a pillar of our economy that now employs over half a million Californians ten times the number of Americans employed in the coal industry.	True
This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem.	Now its that .1 degree Celsius every decade.	The rate of global warming if it was even detectable at this scale with about .1 degrees celsius every thousand or maybe even every 10000 years.	For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer but he doesnt understand climate change.	True
We need to get there by breaking down monopolies and increasing competition.	I will take a balanced approach to governing.	How do you change infrastructure so we run on clean energy rather than fossil fuels?	Virginia Del.	Now the monopolies critics fear that the companies which extract fossil fuels and generate energy in addition to transmitting it will seek to water down any efforts to combat climate change.	True
Why the push abroad?	The countryscut in domestic coal use comes as they fund coal projects abroad including the Engro mine in the Thar desert.	It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when thats less politically popular in China.	The Engro mine for example has 350 Chinese workers and the return on equity for Chinese investors is about 30 percent according to the Salt Lake Tribune.	The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March.	True
In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	The yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes he said.	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said.	U.S. President Donald Trump announced the decision in June shortly after visiting the pope a strong supporter of the deal.	Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	False
But Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a far right climate skeptic who took office this year with a promise to boost development in Latin Americas biggest economy questioned whether offers of international aid mask a plot to exploit the Amazons resources and weaken Brazilian growth.	Deep ramifications Trump would cost General Motors billions if he actually orders business out of China On Tuesday some clouds and a blue sky were partly visible in the Porto Velho morning light.	Amazon fires What would the Earth be like without the Amazon rainforest?	We have fires every year.	Others said in an open letter that the governments discourse and measures are leading to a collapse in federal environmental management and stimulate environmental crimes inside and outside the Amazon.	False
This is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakersMcCarthy now the director of Harvard Universitys Center for Health and the Global Environmenttold HuffPost.	The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation noting that the social cost of carbon and energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence.	Despite overwhelmingly supporting the agreement seven years ago carmakers began lobbying then President elect Donald Trump to reverse the Obama ruling almost immediately after the 2016 election.Automakers missed their emissions target for the first time last year even though they achieved record fuel economy in part because the companies boosted production of gas guzzling SUVs.	In January 2017 the Obama administration attempted to lock the regulation in place by issuing a positive assessment of the costs and feasibility of the regulations.	We want one set of standards nationally along with additional flexibility to help us provide more affordable options for our customers.	True
Exxon was made to pay roughly 29 percent of market share which equaled roughly 236372664 at the time of the lawsuit.	Hagens Berman and Sher Edlings dramacomes after New York fileda lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the companys oil products pose on the climate.	The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation.RELATEDSEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy Exxon engaged in a longstanding fraudulent scheme to deceive investors analysts and underwriters concerning the companys management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulationthe lawsuit notes.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Environmental attorneys Vic Sher and Matt Pawa got intoa multi million dollar legal dispute in 2014 stemming from a lawsuit they both worked on against ExxonMobil.	True
In contrast the UK is currently on a trade mission in Brazil attempting to forge closer ties post Brexit.	Relations between Europe and Brazil are at a low which has worried the powerful agriculture sector.	The Amazon rain forest the lungs which produces 20 of our planets oxygen is on fire.	We feel the climate changing and the world needs the forest.	Handech Wakana Mura another local leader within the forest said With each passing day we see the destruction advance deforestation invasion and logging.	False
Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli.	Like many islands in Greece's Cycladic region waste production on the island of Paros explodes in summer when over 400000 tourists join a local population of just 13000.	You are really exposed to the reality of the situation when you live by the sea says campaigner Zana Kontamanoli.	A shocking 95 of waste in the Mediterranean is plastic.	Not serving bottled water has harmed us admits Andy Kirk owner of Nemobar the first business to sign up to the scheme.	False
The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels a result of emissions from human activities longer growing seasons a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions and nitrogen pollution another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture the article also claims.	In other words more carbon dioxide which is being produced by humans at record levels has improved plant growth which in turn improves food production for humans and animals.	Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people.	True
The meeting included about 40 climate scientists economists lawyers and other experts to discuss the possible creation by the Trump administration of a Red Team Blue Team exercise on climate change he wrote.	The people believe them.	I would go right down to the core starting with the question How much do human emissions increase atmospheric carbon dioxide?	Todays climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations like China to save our climate.	He was never assigned to work on climate change and holds a doctorate in economics not atmospheric science or climatology and his comments on the finding were deemed to be the product of rushed and at times shoddy scholarship according to a 2009 analysis by The New York Times.	False
Well this is the end result of that decision.	Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	We told you last week that the DNC refused to allow their 2020 Democratic candidates to debate the issue of Climate Change.	CNN has announced one massive town hall on Climate Change not massive in crowd size but massive in the amount of time it will take CNN on Tuesday announced the candidate lineup for its unprecedented prime time event focused on the climate crisis.	Ten Democratic presidential hopefuls will appear in New York at back to back town halls on Wednesday September 4 taking audience questions about their climate plans as scientists sound the alarm about global warming.	False
Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.	District Judge William Alsup wrote that San Francisco and Oakland failed to prove that global warming would be substantially curtailed if the oil company did not operate inside California.	The three cities claimed billions of dollars worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said.	False
In a separate May 2017 Gallup survey just 2 percent of Americans listed create more green jobs as the best policy to increase employment in the United States compared to 19 percent who listed keep manufacturing jobs hereStop sending overseas.	Voters aged 18 29 ranked green jobs as their No.	In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	Without an environmental focus Trump voters in support of guaranteed jobs dropped to 30 percent with 45 percent opposed.	Despite the rapid construction of renewable energy infrastructure the United States the worlds largest per capita emitter is aggressively bolstering its fossil fuel production.	False
The drought cost the agricultural economy billions killed an estimated 100 million trees led a half million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water.	The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water.	Conservation must remain a way of life.	LOS ANGELES Reuters One of the worst droughts in California history has officially ended Governor Jerry Brown declared but not before it strained the states farm economy and threatened water supplies for millions of residents.	Brown also said the need for conservation continued.	True
NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes froma 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors.	The report is not without its controversies.	Wed like to see something that is more data driven.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	Continued use of coal and other fossil fuels will eliminate 10 percent of the GDP by 2100according to the report.	True
Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach.	When tanks leak harmful chemicals such as oil gas benzene and toluene into soil and ground water drinking water and soil are fouled community health is jeopardized and economic development is crippled.	Most are service stations but they also include any operation where fuel is stored underground such as government fleet garages large retail operations like Costco stores that sell gas and institutions like hospitals or universities that store fuel to power emergency generators.	Loss of program funding would reverse this trend.	False
We can't have a thriving economy if you don't have a healthy clean environment.	This idea that environmental protection and economic growth are contrary are just wrong and we've proven that over the years as we have reduced the pollutants in the air increased the population increased our energy demand and watched our GDP more than double.	And now of course it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation.	The market conditions are what's causing the coal industry to decline and there's not much the President can do to reverse that trend.	We can come up with better ways to provide power to people and still keep jobs.	False
growth in the nation in 2018 according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis.	He created a fund for clean energy and the state now has extensive solar energy infrastructure and electric buses.	While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P.	Net zero could mean either eliminating carbon emissions altogether or reducing them and using offsetting technologies to cancel out the rest.	His environmental policy record in his home state is long.	True
Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale.	I regret to inform you that Tuvalu cannot accept this document.58 Frys speech to the conference was a highly impassioned plea for countries around the world to address the issues of man made global warming resulting in climate change.	It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.	In his speech Fry claimed man made global warming to be currently the greatest threat to humanity and ended with an emotional the fate of my country rests in your hands.59 Tuvalus plightalso formed part of the basis for arguably the most hysterical fake news claim in the history of climate alarmism the UNs prediction that by the end of 2010 climate change would have created 50 million environmental refugees.	False
The cost of this ten year plan?7 trillion.	A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	Meanwhile her plans for us are incredibly costly and not just because shes pushing a failed economic system for us to operate under.	Tidal generators beach whales with such frequency that if it were a Republican backed project environmental groups would be having conniptionfits and endless marches.	When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	False
But how impactful can individual action be in the absence of systemic changes from the top?	What this means is I don't buy any animal products I try not to create any demand signal for animal products he said.	The content is provided for information purposes only.	The reason everyone's waking up is because there's been this massive grassroots shift over the last year or two he said citing the global youth movement for climate action.	Maassarani is quick to admit that his case falls well outside what most people could envisage and is made possible only by living in what he calls a consumption excessive society.	True
Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	Lastly the Green New Deal which doesnt exactly reveal how it will be funded except for the suggestion that the Federal Reserve could step in and extend credit.	Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right?	The Green New Deal pushed by freshman New York Democrat Alexandra Ocasio Cortez attempts to radically transform the country including rendering air travel obsolete move the U.S. to rely completely on renewable energy with net zero emissions and guarantee economic security even for people who are unwilling to work.	And imagine what wages will need to be to pay for billion dollar per kilowatt electricity.	True
This has nothing to do with climate change.	This has to do with active forest management Zinke said.	I've heard the climate change argument back and forth.	We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access that have refused to allow the harvest of timber Zinke told Breitbart Monday.	He also acknowledged that temperatures are rising.	False
According to oil market analysts cited by CNBC about 20 percent of the countrys oil refining operations are out of service.	The US produces about 17.5 million barrels of oil per day.	Oil giant Exxon Mobil is among the companies to report incidents of emissions released at its refineries as a result of the hurricane which ransacked coastal parts of Texas and caused widespread flooding in the countrys fourth biggest city Houston.	Kinder Morgan the largest energy infrastructure company in North America stores petroleum products for companies such as Chevron and Shell at its terminal in Pasadena Harris.	The unit was stabilized.	False
At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one.	Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another.	Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses.	True
His tenure thus far at the EPA is the stuff of corporate wish lists meeting privately with the worst industrial perpetrators of silent violence charitably described as pollution and huddling with industry lobbyists and corporate lawyers who are eager for Pruitt to dismantle his own agency the federal manager of environmental violence to air water soil and food.	The industries that are most responsible for pollution should be in charge of their own enforcement.	Lets be clear about what is at issue here.	History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self inflicted wounds and scandals.	Conservative lungs and other bodily organs are as vulnerable to pollution bred terminal ailments and the violent effects of climate change as their liberal counterparts.	False
First unlike smoking energy is a basic good.	According to a study that is often drawn upon to make the case for liability the two largest contributors to the rise in CO2 emissions since 1980 are Saudi Aramco and Gazprom the state owned oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Russia.	Bill de Blasio mayor of New York recently added his city to the list and also started to divest the citys pension funds from fossil fuel companies.	Some form of energy is necessary to do just about anything including to meet essential needs such as heating or cooling a home which in some places is a genuine safety issue.	The Union of Concerned Scientists the activist group that has spearheaded this push for legal action has compared energy companies behavior with that of tobacco companies decades ago.	True
350.org an international environmental group is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video.	Climate change is already happening.	RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday.	False
Two days after taking office President Donald Trump signed an executive order reauthorizing the pipeline.	In November 2015 former President Barack Obamas administration blocked the pipelines construction citing potential environmental impact.	TransCanada is blocked from engaging in any activity in furtherance of the construction or operation of Keystone and associated facilities until the State Department can confirm that doing so would not violate the Administrative Procedure Act or the National Environmental Policy Act.	In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation.	Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available.	False
Climate Change.'	Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.	It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'.	It read 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change or push action further down the road.	'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change' saidJoseph Curtin a senior fellow at the IIEA.	True
The Energy Information Administration projected CPP would result in 1.23 trillion in lost gross domestic product GDP in 2014 dollars from 2020 to 2030 with an average annual GDP loss of 112 billion.	During the 2016 presidential campaign Trump said the United States faces numerous problems more important than climate change and he pledged to eliminate environmental policies hampering economic growth and domestic energy development targeting the CPP by name.	CPP was the centerpiece of the Obama administrations effort to move the United States away from the use of fossil fuels beginning with coal to fight climate change.	Relying on unsubstantiated projections produced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the EPA determined carbon dioxide emissions from cars and industry threaten human welfare.	CPP would have dramatically raised energy costs in United States harming the poorest among us more than the rest and putting U.S. industries at a competitive disadvantage in the global economy.	True
SteveGorehamis a speaker on the environment business and public policy and author of thebookOutside the Green Box Rethinking Sustainable Development.	But against that negative we must weigh this positive Our industrial revolution and the development of our modern world have literally been fueled by oil and coal.	Oceans are rising 7 8 inches per century not the 20 feet per centurypredictedby former Vice President Al Gore and others.	New York Citysoughtmonetary damages from BP Chevron Conoco Phillips ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell as compensation for damage caused by dangerous global warming allegedly caused by the companies.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False
A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security utilizing all energy sources and technologies while protecting the environment.	American strength flows from American energy and as it turns out we have a lot of American energy.	Sides with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait at climate conference Considering Trump announced the US would walk away from the Paris climate agreement which brought together the rest of the world it's no surprise the US continues to be an outlier on the international stage.	Washington CNN Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report.	Countries were asked to welcome the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change which says governments around the world must take rapid far reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society to avoid disastrous levels of global warming.	False
We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated.	All of those problems are a result of climate change.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	Wheres the presidents outrage about that?	Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels.	True
during the UN General Assembly this year.	By lunchtime the hashtag was trending on the social media platform with one popular response reading 'A 16 year old with Asperger's and non native English speaker has better social and communications skills than the current President of the United States.	During the 2016 campaign he claimed it was a 'hoax' promoted by China in order to gain economic advantage over the United States.	Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'	The magazine says 'In the 16 months since she has addressed heads of state at the U.N. met with the Pope sparred with the President of the United States and inspired 4 million people to join the global climate strike on September 20 2019 in what was the largest climate demonstration in human history.'	False
Gov.	California is expected to receive about 8 billion in fiscal years 2019 and 2020.	The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently.	Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court.	I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air more than any other place in the country says Janet McCabe who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute.	False
In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it.	The senator from Vermont wrote No matter what agenda President Trump and his administration of climate deniers push it is clear that jobs in clean energy like wind and solar are growing much more rapidly than jobs in the coal oil and gas sectors.	Previously the website housed data on greenhouse gas emissions from large polluters and reports on the effects of climate change and its impact on human health.	We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	The Trump administration has called for budget cuts of nearly one third at the EPA and has sought to weaken protections for human health.	False
While rising temperatures have certainly put a strain on species in some parts of the world a new study by researchers at the University of Southern Denmark suggests animals in the Arctic region are thriving as because of higher global temperatures.	Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive.	this affords ample proof that new sources of warmth have been opened and give us leave to hope that the Arctic Seas may at this time be more accessible than they have been for centuries past and that discoveries may now be made in them not only interesting to the advancement of science but also to the future intercourse of mankind and the commerce of distant nations.	As reported by Anthony Watts on his influential climate change website Watts Up With That the president of the Royal Society in London reported in 1817 significant reductions to arctic sea ice.	It will without doubt have come to your Lordships knowledge that a considerable change of climate inexplicable at present to us must have taken place in the Circumpolar Regions by which the severity of the cold that has for centuries past enclosed the seas in the high northern latitudes in an impenetrable barrier of ice has been during the last two years greatly abated.	False
We need to be resilient and adapt.	A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city but it has been plagued by cost overruns corruption scandals and delays.	Tourists are taking pictures but the city is suffering.	Residents whose houses had been hit would immediately get up to 5000 euros in government aid while restaurant and shop owners could receive up to 20000 euros and apply for more later he said.	The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame.	True
Literally the future of the world depends on us.	But the states economy is heavily dependent on the fossil fuel industry which also wields immense political clout.	We have seen the result which is an emergency of booming fossil fuel production here in the United States at precisely the time we need to be urgently moving away from those dirty fuels Turnbull said.	In 2015 ORourke twice voted to repeal the nationwide ban on exporting crude oil internationally arguing that lifting the prohibition would boost the economy and national security.	The seeds of a decisive and urgent approach were visible in his first campaign visits to Iowa in March when ORourke praised the radical climate change led proposals in the Green New Deal citing his home states struggles with extreme weather such as droughts and hurricanes.	False
Erosion of fertile topsoil deforestation of the rainforest toxic air pollution loss of insects and wildlife acidification of our oceans these are all disastrous trends said Thunberg barely able to keep her tears back.	Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote.	RELATED Another Canadian Province Boots Liberals Out Of Power Over Carbon Taxes Environmentalists even some climate scientists are increasingly promoting Thunbergs actions in an effort to draw more young people into climate activism.	American student activists led by the daughter of Democratic Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar demanded a Green New Deal the legislation sponsored by New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez.	The teenager warned in a high profile speech to the United Nations last year that we need to keep the fossil fuels in the ground or face catastrophe.	True
The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection.	President Barack Obama relied heavily on administrative action as Republicans controlled Congress for most of his presidency and resisted passing laws that favored environmental protections over companies.	He wrote that industry groups showed clearly that they would face economic harm if logging was banned in the area.	The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real world problems.	There are also cases where he found that industrial groups have standing to oppose environmental restrictions.	True
A lot of people say well gas is so cheap right now.	As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia Washington D.C. for anexclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world.	And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus.	True
The global economys overshoot of ecological limits and increasingly climate change are driving a global fresh water scarcity crisis and the sixth mass extinction of species which could devastate much of life on earth for the next ten million years the resolution warns.	Climate change population growth and growing demand for food energy and fresh water will incite violent conflict over diminishing resources by the year 2030 the document also forecasts with remarkable confidence.	Climate change has been linked to the Syrian War the rise of Boko Haram in Nigeria as well as the famines water shortages and resulting conflict in Yemen Somalia and South Sudan the document pronounces.	The United States of America has disproportionately contributed to the climate and ecological crises and to preventing a transition away from fossil fuels and Americans thus bear an extraordinary responsibility to solve the crises the text reads.	The City of Berkeley calls on the United States of America to initiate a just national mobilization emergency effort to reverse global warming which ends national greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and immediately initiates an effort to safely draw down carbon from the atmosphere the text boldly proposes.	True
We know that fighting climate change will reduce costs and create millions of jobs.We have the knowledge and technology needed to prevent future catastrophes.By doing so we will create broad prosperity cleaner air and water cheaper energy for all and most importantly we will save lives.	We face an existential threat and in the face of this your specious economic arguments and lame fossil fuel endorsed excuses fall flat.	This is a time for action action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	The catastrophe unfolding in Houston is yet another stark warning.People are losing their homes and their jobs.	Tragically no industry has done more to block crucial action to address climate change than the oil industry.	True
The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia.	In a major report last week the prestigious UK journal The Lancet suggested that pollution of air and water rather than carbon induced global warming is the real crisis facing the world one being overlooked by environmental activists.	Seasonal river flows are changing and floods and droughts are more severe more frequent than ever before.	Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwidethree times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence.	The international summit Water and Climate Meeting of the Great Rivers of the World sponsored by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe UNECE and other partners is taking place in Romes Capitol building the Campidoglio from Oct. 23 25.	True
The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added.	We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of Gods creation including the complex beautiful and life sustaining planet earth.	inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer.	We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral.	The church leaders slammed Daines for having the audacity to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm.	False
I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	Ocasio Cortez meanwhile has proposed a new congressional committee to develop a plan to transition the US economy away from fossil fuels reduce the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	As a Michigan state legislator Tlaib fought to reduceair and water pollution in Detroit and put environmental justice at the center of her campaign.	That promise falls short of what Ocasio Cortez Tlaib and the Sunrise Movement protesters seeknamely the creation of a so called Green New Dealbut the attention has started a conversation between the new members and their partys longtime leader.	Climate change has been a key issue for both Tlaib and Ocasio Cortez.	True
The Westinghouse fuel factory turns uranium into several types of fuel for nuclear reactors.	The factory has been operational for almost five decades and is one of a handful of nuclear fuel factories in the US.	In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures.	Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past.	Fuel manufactured at the South Carolina facility is used in nuclear reactors in the US Europe and Asia.	True
Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said.	Instead of Obamas stifling energy regulations the Trump administration will promote policies thatfavorAmerican energy dominance.	Our clean energy future is now.	Our movement is growing and our momentum is unstoppable.	All of this and were just getting started.	True
Its based on modeling.	Among threats to health and the environment the report also warned that sweeping damage would cut off as much as 10 percent of the U.S. economy.	The 1656 page reportcompiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers painted the bleakest portrait of the future United States yet noting that the country had already warmed 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit over the past century and will warm a further 3 degrees by 2100 unless fossil fuel use is scaled back.	... Its not data driven White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday.	Its not based on facts.	False
None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	While Trump continues to deny the threat that climate change poses to his own properties and the world at large the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco released a report Thursday on the financial risks that global warming poses.	None Turkey's president Erdogan bluffed Trump out of Syria.	Despite warnings from the scientific community developers including Trump have continued to invest in property that could be underwater before long.	Now what does he want?	True
Claim 1 Solar grew by 90 percent in the last two years.	No other state experienced the same level of growth over this period.	Claim 3 From 2005 to 2017 this country has reduced emissions by 14 percent claimed Perry.	Claim 4 When I first met you you were running for president the Department of Energy was one of the federal agencies that you thought was maybe extraneous said Cannon.	So were seeing this really great growth in these renewables claimed Perry.	True
I don't want to lose millions and millions of jobs.	I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	But that doesnt mean we have to put one of our businesses out of business.	The report detailed how Earth's weather health and ecosystems would be in better shape if the world's leaders could somehow limit future human caused warming.	Trump's comments came just days after a Nobel Prize winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a warning that global warming would increase climate related risks to health livelihoods food security water supply human security and economic growth.	False
In a first Washington Gov.	Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society.	Nearly every major declared contender for the Democratic nomination has expressed support for the Green New Deal a movement calling for a sweeping national industrial policy that zeroes out greenhouse gases over a decade guarantees clean energy jobs to millions and puts the country on course to generate as close to 100 percent of its electricity from renewables as possible in a decade.	We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources.	We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources.	True
The conclusion?	Climate change has become the biggest environmental issue of our time so its worth looking at things from an emissions standpoint.	Back in 2011 Britains Environment Agency conducted a life cycle assessment of various bag options looking at every step of the production process.	Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost free.	Growing cotton requires a fair bit of energy land fertilizer and pesticides which can have all sorts of environmental effects from greenhouse gas emissions to nitrogen pollution in waterways.	True
Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	has certified that these are standard terms at market rate so it shouldnt matter to you that I dont run EPA.	In December Pruitt and members of his staff spent about 40000 in taxpayer funds to fly to Morocco to help encourage the North African kingdom to import liquefied natural gas from the United States.	In October EPA announced it would rewrite the Clean Power Plan an Obama era regulation that sought to limit planet warming carbon emissions from coal fired power plants like those operated by OGE which paid Harts firm 400000 in lobbying fees in 2017.	Minolis memo says the 50 a night rate would total 1500 for 30 nights a month which he deemed to be a fair price.	True
We are hungry Were tired and weak Our babies are sick the plants and animals complain.	Why are we sick?	No one has any answers.	What is doing this to us?	Pollution also comes from the cars and trucks people drive.	False
Absolutely American absolutely democratic they reflect us at our best rather than our worst.	When Congress and the executive branches of government failed to appropriate funding in 1998 and 2013 the government shut down for extended periods and the national parks were closed to the public.	This story was originally published bytheGuardian.	Now left unattended and gathering trash and human waste the Trump administration has let them reflect us at our worst.	The logic was that if the employees were furloughed and could not perform their stewardship and safety responsibilities then the only way to meet the requirements of unimpaired was to close the parks.	False
So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land?	They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate Change Climate change is coming like a freight train or a rising tide.	By 2100 the Corn Belt is going to be in Canada not in the United States says Jason Clay senior vice president for food and markets at the World Wildlife Fund.	Russia which is already a major wheat exporter may be able to expand the amount of land devoted to this crop.	True
I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said.	Tangier Island's steadfast rejection of climate change reflects the rigidity of American opinions about global warming often defined along political party lines.	That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	Journalists and politicians now view the island as a symbol of the climate crisis.	Conservative climate activists like Rob Sisson of ConservAmerica and Mitch Hescox of the Evangelical Environmental Network said the rejection of climate change by Tangier residents is not surprising their groups often have trouble convincing fellow Republicans global warming is a real issue.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Trump's ultimate goal is to roll back improvements President Obama made that limit the pollution coal plants produce.	Trump wants to toss out the Obama era rules with ones that allow older coal plants to stay in business longer and continue risking lives by spewing particulates into the air.	Obama's rules would have reduced the amount of dangerous particulate matter in the air by gradually moving energy production to cleaner forms of energy and shutting down older dirtier coal plants.	The rules will be favorable to dirty energy producers like the coal industry an industry that Trump's EPA chief Andrew Wheeler used to lobby for.	False
This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord.	Even within his own cabinet there are numerous siren voices Javanka Secretary of State Tillerson Economics advisor Gary Cohn urging Trump to maintain his predecessors disastrous green policies.	Since carbon dioxide is a natural by product of almost every industrial process the knock on damage to the U.S economy in the form of lost jobs and higher energy prices would have been huge.	So while its good news that the CPP will probably never be implemented the bad news is how difficult it is even for a determinedly skeptical president like Trump to unravel environmental regulation.	In 2016 when it launched the plan at Obamas behest the EPA declared that theClean Power Plan was a vital cost effective way of combating climate change which would ultimately benefit the U.S. consumer.	False
Browns order applies to the entire economy including transportation and agriculture.	University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	California Democratic Gov.	What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity.	Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	True
Over2 million new passenger vehicles were sold and registered in the nations most populous state last year more thanthan the entire nations of Spain France and Italy.	China plans to endsales of combustion enginevehicles in 2030.	Nichols said referring to Chinas planned phase out of fossil fuel vehicle sales.	Other countries like France and the U.K. plan to follow suit a decade later.	Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally due to the massive size of Californias car market.	True
It isa direct impact of the climate crisis.	Climate Justice.	No more coal no more oil keep your carbon in the soil and Waters are rising people are dying.	The youths held signs that read Greed Kills Help My Home is on Fire and 527 Years of Indigenous Resistance and chanted in between speeches phrases such as What do we want?	When do we want it?	False
Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health.	It also stated that the GND would provide benefits for people unwilling to work.	Hes all in on climate program.	A real solution proposed in Washington?	Other analysts shared similar sentiments.	False
However those financial gains for Musk depend on higher energy taxes for the nations established manufacturing sectors especially in Midweststates.Breitbart described the economic impact of the climate agreement Unsurprisingly Musk is a strong advocate for growing carbon taxes on natural fuels.	The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons.	The shift in government policy likely will force Musk and his investors to revamp his sprawling business empire which relies on government subsidies and on preferencesfor solar energy over natural fuels.	The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero.	This can be offset by a reduction in other taxes like sales tax which is quite regressive.	True
We can create millions of good paying jobs.	Please dont tell me that we cannot take on the fossil fuel industry.	I have a plan for a green industrial policy that takes advantage of the fact that we do what we do best and that is innovate and create.	Montana Gov.	It outlines a vision for economic infrastructure and clean energy investment while aggressively ramping down to net zero emissions as soon as possible.	False
He was CEO and chairman of ExxonMobil from 2006 until he joined the Trump administration in 2017.	In the late 90s Koch Industries invested in an aerospace company Pompeo founded with fellow West Point alumni.	Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse.	He sold his interest in Thayer Aerospace in 2006 and became president of Sentry International which produces and sells oil field equipment.	He received more financial backing from Koch Industries an energy and natural resources conglomerate than any other candidate in the 2010 elections 80000.	True
Wouldnt be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now!	Large parts of the Country are suffering from tremendous amounts of snow and near record setting cold.	President Trump Donald John TrumpSunday shows preview Shutdown negotiations continue after White House immigration proposal Rove warns Senate GOP Don't put only focus on base Ann Coulter blasts Trump shutdown compromise We voted for Trump and got Jeb!	The current winter storm prompted the governor of Kansas to declare a state of emergency canceled thousands of flights and dumped more than a foot of snow across most of upstate New York.	A government report issued late last yearconcluded that climate change could cost the United States billions of dollars annually within decades if greenhouse gases arent dramatically reduced and could worsen environmental disasters like wildfires and flooding.	False
It could prove to be an example of how emerging economies can grow while slashing their carbon emissions.	But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	A healthy and environmentally sustainable future requires more than just switching from dirty coal to wind or solar power.	The overall direction if not the magnitude and rate of change laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally.	But first the state must overcome its addiction to coal writes Nityanand Jayaraman.	False
Another way to think about it is that Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement is supported in reality by only about 30 of the economy and 35 of the population Hultman said.	The next president must repay this extraordinary climate debt by rapidly moving America to 100 clean energy and financing the decarbonization of the Global South Su said referring to the developing world.	Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product.	Staying on par with those more advanced countries would require the US government to eliminate pollution from coal and natural gas powered electricity plants transportation manufacturing facilities and agriculture.	In addition the Trump administration has also pulled US funding commitments to help the developing world cut pollution.	False
So you really cant say the sky is falling.	Miller suggested that the Endangered Species Act would be the first environmental issue to take the stage on a Kennedy less court A dispute over the endangered dusky gopher frog Weyerhaeuser v. US Fish and Wildlife Service FWS is now on the courts docket in the fall.	At the same time it had already started to chip away at EPAs power to regulate greenhouse gasses in 2016 by halting enforcement of the Obama administrations Clean Power Plan aimed at curbing emissions from power plants.	So there was no majority opinion.	Further down the road experts expect a fight over which of the nations waterways are actually protected under the Clean Water Act to return to the Supreme Court which sent lawsuits on this issue to district courts in January.	False
Of six different options global warming and climate change performed the worst beaten handily by climate crisis environmental destruction weather destabilization and environmental collapse.	Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Now is the time to abandon our dependence on fossil fuels and move quickly and decisively towards forms of clean energy and a sustainable and circular economy.	Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles!	Deterioration has increased in recent decades constant pollution the continued use of fossil fuels intensive agricultural exploitation and deforestation are causing global temperatures to rise above safe levels he said.	True
Global Change Research Program.	New U.S.	Climate Assessment Forecasts Dire Effects On Economy Health The Trump administration released a major climate assessment on Black Friday the culmination of years of research by the country's top climate scientists.	It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	Extreme weather events could also cause price spikes and interrupt international trade.	True
One is a critical rate of change corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the oceanatmosphere system.	Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock.	Daniel Rothman told the publication that we are approaching a threshold of catastrophe in the carbon cycle similar to that of the five previous periods of mass extinction over the last 540 million years.	Rothman says thatdecreasing carbon emissions would be the best way to try to avoid the catastrophe.	According to Digital Trends a mass extinction eventis an event in which a large number of species become extinct at once as was the case with the death of thedinosaurs65 million years ago.	False
To avert climate chaos we need to challenge the free market fundamentalism that has conquered the world since the 1980s.	As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	The Green New Deal promises a well paid job for everyone who wants one a real mass transit system clean and affordable energy and universal healthcare a necessity as people leave their jobs to find new work in the transition away from fossil fuels.	Members of Trumps cabinet Klein has written donald trump tax cuts climate change republican ideology capitalism with their desperate need to deny the reality of global warming or belittle its implications nonetheless understand something that is fundamentally true.	As the New York Times reported in its article on the White Houses new climate plans both Happer and John Bolton who tapped him for the administration have received generous support from the Mercers the rightwing family credited with both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic.	False
The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement.	Meeting the 1.5C limit required rapid far reaching and unprecedented change in land and energy use industry buildings transport and cities it said adding temperatures would be 1.5C higher between 2030 and 2052 at the current pace.	The Paris pact aims to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2C above pre industrial levels while seeking to tighten the goal to 1.5C.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	There has already been a rise of 1C since the mid 1800s as industrialization lifted emissions of carbon dioxide CO2 the main greenhouse gas blamed for climate change.	False
All we're saying is it shouldn't cost thousands of manufacturing jobs raise the gas tax by 20 cents a gallon to start out with and raise natural gas prices for people who heat their home by almost 50 percent.	The cap and trade program intended to rein in industrial carbon emissions lost traction even with the state's Democratic senators according to Courtney sparking protesters who were initially demanding that Republicans return to the floor for a vote to begin chantingPeter Courtney's got to go.	Critics say it would hurt the business community and exacerbate a divide between liberalurban areas and conservative rural parts of the state.	Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	We think there's a better way to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and so were holding out Knopp said.	False
Trump said the deal transferred wealth from the U.S. to economic rivals like China and India.	Trump said the Paris agreement was poorly negotiated and would harm the U.S. economy.	Throughout much of the 2016 campaign then candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the Americanpeople.	Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact.	President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.	True
Salvage expert Nick Sloane is the brains behind a scheme to tow a massive iceberg from Antarctica to Cape Town to alleviate the South African city's drought AFP PhotoRODGER BOSCH Cape Town AFP It is a plan as crazy as the situation is desperate towing an iceberg from Antarctica to Cape Town to supply fresh water to a city in the grip of drought.	It won't sort out Cape Town's crisis but it will be about 20 to 30 percent of their annual needs said Sloane.	It is a high risk project but also one which may have a very high reward at the end said Orheim.	For Wolfgang Foerg the chief executive of Swiss company Water Vision which has teamed up with Sloane the project has huge potential in the face of ever more frequent drought.	Here we are talking about 100 million tons said Sloane.	True
And as Browns plan begins to drive water consumption down Woodling said it could hurt the economy.	John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Browns assertion of state power in this area will give it permanent unchecked control over local water management decisions.	Certainly Californians and everyone else ought to find ways to responsibly use natural resources such as water.	Its time for these conservation regulations to be lifted and for the state to do what it should have done a long time ago look to expand its water supply.	California ought to begin expanding its water supply rather than incessantly regulate how citizens use water especially now that the governor doesnt retain the broad powers spelled out under the drought state of emergency Browns flood state of emergency doesnt give him the same power to regulate water use.	True
Last month Representative Kevin Cramer a Republican from oil gas and coal rich North Dakota wrote The U.S. should present a new pledge that does no harm to our economy.	That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals.	Cancel the Paris climate treaty and any other agreements entered into unilaterally and without the consent of Congress Mr. Hamm wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump before his inauguration.	In response Peter Trelenberg the manager of environmental policy and planning at Exxon Mobil wrote to Mr. Banks Exxon Mobil supports the Paris agreement as an effective framework for addressing the risks of climate change.	What we say to the White House is that its clearly a terrible agreement for the American people said Tim Phillips the president of Americans for Prosperity.	True
Crops like corn are now turned into ethanol but that raises food prices.	Growing more forests which absorb CO2 is one tactic.	But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals.	This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	In 50 years she says it's going to be very different.	False
Corporate America is doing its part.	When private enterprise is free to experiment and innovate we see a stronger economy and a real commitment to environmental action.	As always free market forces outperform the unfunded mandates and taxpayer funded job killing enforcement bureaucracies of Big Government.	They referred to the irreversible agreement as a vital instrument for our planet societies and economies.	The decline in U.S. carbon emissions is a testament to the free markets enduring power.	True
It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty.	We'll probably lose 10 to 15 of our GDP.	The deal describes a 10 year economic mobilization that would overhaul the nation's infrastructure and build new layers into the existing social safety net.	He said guaranteed jobs free to those who don't want to work probably cost 45 trillion.	The deal proposes guaranteeing a job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people of the United States.	False
All while owning multiple mansions vacationing on yachts and flying thousands of miles in private jets.	The actor also asked if are we too late to stop climate change and blasted the supposed corporate greed of the coal oil and gas industries in January 2016.	In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.	Yet she has owned five homes and a private jet all at the same time.	But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	False
We set a goal to get to net zero rather than zero emissions in 10 years because we arent sure that well be able to fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes that fast reads the initial version of the resolutions fact sheet.	The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014 which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals?	Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs newly released Green New Deal resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions.	False
Trade Renegotiate NAFTA.	Work with businesses.	Education Establish universal pre K education.	Provide two free years of higher education.	Reconstitute U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE.	False
In truth green economies are those with taxpayer subsidized and government mandated renewable energy primarily wind and solar.	For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries.	All of this is to be pursued through jointly held symposia seminars workshops study tours collaborative research and development projects exchanges and training programs and other forms of cooperation that strengthen the bonds between UNEP and the U.S.	For its part UNFCCC has enthusiastically spread climate alarmism and gone to extraordinary lengths to deny the residents of the worlds poorest access to reliable and affordable electricity and transportation fuel thereby perpetuating their poverty.	Continued fealty to the Obama era MOU runs counter to the presidents goal of American global energy dominance which is anchored to our abundance of oil natural gas and coal.	True
Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution climate change and deforestation.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have.	It also found 42 of land based animal and plant species in Europe and Central Asia have declined in the last decade.	Fortunately the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets.	False
The forest products industry is worth 400 billion a year.	The US southeast is already experiencing repeated droughts it is already experiencing heatwaves it is the last place to plant a eucalyptus plantation.	This technology is worth billions of dollars a year.	If you can increase yields by 40 percent you can greatly reduce prices.	Eucalyptus trees are the number one industrial tree plantation used in Latin America Africa and Asia traditionally in tropical areas where commerce appreciates their fast growth and versatility.	False
Washington Gov.	Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Here is the format The audience will be composed of selected Democrats independents and stakeholders.	It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates like what executive orders they would sign how high climate change ranks as a priority and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy.	CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy.	True
At this year's State of the Union address Trump talked about ending the war on beautiful clean coal.	A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives.	In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it.	Throughout his campaign and presidency Trump has lauded his plan to replace the Obama administration's climate change policies with rules and regulations that would be more friendly toward the coal industry.	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said.	True
This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	The executive order titled Promoting Domestic Manufacturing and Job Creation Policies and Procedures Relating to Implementation of Air Quality Standards reverses an Obama era decision.	The orderinstructs the EPA to consider what countries that dont border the United States are doing to reduce pollution allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India.	It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk.	Its a go ahead for industry that if they take their best shot at states the EPA wont be getting in the way.	True
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	The politically incorrect gift highlighted thecost effectivenessand ready availability of fossil fuels which were responsible for powering the industrial revolution throughout the developed world.	Their leadership is launching a path that the World Bank and its financial organs should follow.	Considering that the World Bank is meeting these days in Washington we hope its leaders will notice that the fossil free movement has grown and is getting stronger.	In this new wave of ethical investing the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record.	False
People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	'The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	The 16 year old is taking a year out of school to lobby for climate action after starting the school strike movement in Sweden last August.	She skipped school for the first three weeks after term began and then took Fridays off to spend the day outside Sweden's parliament with a sign labelled 'School strike for climate'.	Its donors include heiress Aileen Getty American philanthropist Trevor Neilson and filmmaker Rory Kennedy a member of the political Kennedy clan.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100000 Americans every year the AP reports and Trumps own EPA shows not only worse air pollution but a significant increase in the two worst categories very unhealthy and hazardous conditions.	His lies dont make it cleaner and his policies are on track to make it worse.	During the Trump administration U.S. cities saw air pollution in one of these two categories nearly 140 times which is almost three times as often as the average from 2013 to 2016.	While Trump has been in office the air has gotten dirtier.	True
Economists like public health researchers are limited by their inability to deliberately poison people in order to study the impact of the poisoning.	Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it.	This is critically important for two main reasons.	Climate change garners most of the headlines but the Trump administration is pushing a much larger and broader pro pollution agenda whose latest manifestation is a push at the EPA to overturn a long established scientific consensus that fine particulate pollution colloquially soot kills people.	In addition to killing small numbers of people air pollution harms large numbers of people in small but meaningful ways This is an emerging field of study and it would obviously benefit from some further inquiry.	True
Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains.	Andrew Fountain a geologist at Portland State added While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale.	Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said.	wikimedia commons Its now inevitable that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana.	Last year scientists in Colorado found that the Arikaree glacier which is likely more than 1000 years old has been thinning by around a metre 3.2ft a year over the past decade and will vanish within 25 years.	False
Florida To Decide On Offshore Drilling And Vaping?	Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming.	The Daily Caller News Foundation lays out everything one needs to know about the six most important energy battles this election.	The battle of Initiative 1631 has become the most expensive in state history so far drawing 45 million from both sides of the policy.	While our editorial board opposes offshore drilling in state waters we also are philosophically opposed to the Constitution Revision Commissions bundling of these unrelated issues into a single amendment the editorial board of Treasure Coast Newspapers wrote in October.	True
In a consent decree reached with Exxon Mobil last October the EPA boasted that the company would spend 300 million to install pollution controls but Schaeffer noted that this total includes measures installed as far back as 2013.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama era environmental regulations as possible.	Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows.	What this means is that the EPA is not going after polluters like it used to.	True
The revenue was designed to be directed toward projects accelerating the states shift away from fossil fuels including expanding public transit energy efficiency retrofits for big buildings and new wind and solar powered plants.	This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	The Western States Petroleum Association raised over 31 milliona record for Washington ballot initiativesfor its No campaign spending nearly 30 million of it by the start of this month.	The campaign dispensed 10.8 million in the last two weeks of October alone.	The Evergreen States third and latest attempt to put a price on climate pollution failed Tuesday as voters rejected the historic ballot measure notching yet another win for the oil and gas industry.	True
Gov.	Heoutraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement.	He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan fuel economy standards for carsoffshore drilling restrictions and solar tax credits.	More recently Brown helped found the United States Climate Alliance a group of state and local governments pledging to abide by the Paris climate agreement even after the federal government withdraws.	Donald Trump has singlehandedly been working to set back U.S. climate policy 50 years.	False
Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'	Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'	The young activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk fr klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year.	In a speech the teenager also criticized governments for avoiding taking action to cut greenhouse gas emissions and 'not behaving as if we are in an emergency'.	Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'	False
For China pollution can rise into the 700s which could be having a major impact on happiness.	People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions.	Researchers used pollution data from 144 Chinese cities and monitored general happiness of urban dwellers by looking at the mood using 210 million messages from China's largest microblogging platform Sina Weibo.	They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100.	The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	False
The question should be you know just how much and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?	Trump has pegged himself as a savior of Americas dying coal industry and has vowed to increase oil and gas production openingnow protected areasof the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to drilling.	In June he announced plans topull the U.S. out of the historic Paris Agreement on climate change the international accord in which nearly 200 countries committed to slashing carbon emissions in an effort to prevent global temperatures fromincreasing 2 degrees Celsiusabove pre industrial levelsthe line scientists say the world must stay below to stave off the very worst effects of climate change.	Is man having an effect on it?	The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance.	False
Additionally his proposed 2018 budget would cut funding for the Office of Surface Mining which is responsible for protecting society and the environment from the adverse effects of surface coal mining operations.	In a letter written on Friday the Interior Department announced the shutdown of the study which was started in 2016 under former President Barack Obama while the department undergoes an agency wide budgetary review.	Some suggest the move may be part of President Donald Trump's efforts to bring back coal.	In February he scrapped the Stream Protection Rule a regulation to protect waterways from coal mining waste and promised to bring back coal mining jobs.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement.	False
It's bigger than the U.S. and Mexico combined.	But there is good news as far as climate change goes.	A massive waterfall formed on Greenland's ice sheet.	Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully.	They developed a new generation ice sheet model but it was not behaving as expected.	False
The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming.	President Donald Trump who insists he is an environmentalist has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change.	The move is the Trump administrations latest easing of rules designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions including many put forth by his predecessor President Barack Obama.	Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland.	Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide.	False
PG is one of the world's largest consumer products companies with annual revenue of 67 billion and a stock market value of 305 billion.	When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	It's that natural infrastructure that we're trying to avoid being lost.	We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	Frankly there are a lot of different companies that have moved in the direction of using recycled paper and I have a hard time imagining that they would have done it if it were not economically sustainable Musgrave said.	False
As a New York Times story lays out Murray was the architect of a so called environmental regulations wish list which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA.	Wheeler and Murray were photographed at a March 2017 meeting with Energy Secretary Rick Perry where many of these policies were purportedly discussed.	Others included Xcel Energy and General Mills.	As Trump said himself I have no doubt that Andy will continue on with our great and lasting EPA agenda.	Pruitts goals as EPA administrator have centered on crafting or destroying policy in order to establish a friendlier regime for the fossil fuel industry.	True
Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions.	The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	READ MOREMining in Alaska may return as EPA scraps Obama era regulations Pruitt the new head of the EPA had been looking to extend a suspension on these activities for two years.	Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years.	Lazarus continued the DC Circuits ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator Scott Pruitt can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration.	True
The loss for the administration means it now faces a high profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge.	Circuit Court of Appeals.	This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers.	WASHINGTON Reuters The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday rejected for now a bid by the President Donald Trumps administration to block a trial in a lawsuit filed by young activists who have accused the U.S. government of ignoring the perils of climate change.	This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	False
Signing his order the president said thousands of jobs were at risk because the EPA decided that navigable waters can mean nearly every puddle or every ditch on a farmers land or anyplace else that they decide.	The National Mining Association another opponent of the rule and representative of an industry relentlessly backed by Trump welcomed its impending demise.	We are taking significant action to return power to the states and provide regulatory certainty to our nations farmers and businesses said Scott Pruitt administrator of the EPA.	Once again the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country and once again its putting the health of American families and communities at risk said Michael Brune executive director of Sierra Club.	In recent months the EPA has wound back rules curbing vehicle emissions toxic waste from power plants and methane leaks from oil and gas drilling operations.	True
The sale comes amid an ongoing debate over drilling in states like Colorado Arizona and New Mexico where a coalition of tribes are calling for a halt on energy development near land that Native Americans consider sacred.	The Trump administration has pushed to open vast expanses of public lands to oil and gas drilling speed up the construction of petroleum pipelines and ease federal environmental regulations dismissing calls from scientists in and out of government that immediate cuts in oil gas and coal emissions are required to stave off the worst of climate change.	When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization.	The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association.	Included in the Bureau of Land Managements September oil and gas lease sale is about 47 square miles 122 square kilometers of land north of Hovenweep National Monument a group of prehistoric villages overlooking a canyon with connections to several indigenous tribes throughout the U.S. Southwest.	False
As a Christian I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible James Wanliss an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author ofThe Green Dragon Is Global Warming a Religion?	If youre grindingly poor youre just going to care about your next meal and too bad if trees get in your way.	His campaign site calls for energy independence and stakes out the vague position Coal mining and oil drilling should be encouraged subject only to reasonable regulations.	The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	In December The Baptist Press the official media arm of the Southern Baptist Convention published an open letter of support for Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitts nomination amid fierce backlash over the former Oklahoma attorney generals rejection of the scientific consensus on climate change.	False
What are we looking for?	Wall asked.	I'd like to know what's hazardous.	Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all.	With hundreds of anxious homeowners listening state emergency services official Eric Lamoureux set a target of early 2018 for completing the clean up and allowing owners to start rebuilding.	False
Take Trumps nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt.	President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has been portrayed in some press coverage as a decision driven by either his personal idiosyncrasies or the policy agenda of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon.	The reality is that one of the USs two major political parties is institutionally committed at nearly every level to the same basic agenda of environmental deregulation and inaction on carbon emissions.	Trumps withdrawal in Paris isnt an odd outlier but instead rests on that foundation.	Which makes it the crucial context for Trumps move Thursday.	False
Exactly what we did to lift millions out of the Great Depression and build the largest middle class the world had yet seen.	And is exactly what we need to do now to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels greenhouse gas emissions invest in the jobs and technologies of renewable energy that will allow us to meet our obligation and allow this country once again to claim its status as the indispensable nation.	Addressing the Green New Deal ORourke summoned his followers to harness the the most ingenious mechanism yet devised by humankind to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels.	The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy.	How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?	False
After that conversation Trump economic adviser Gary Cohn said the president's views are evolving and that he feels much much more knowledgeable after the conversation with world leaders.	And up for debate the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	In Europe World Leaders Try To Change Trump's Mind On Climate Change It was eight against one according to German Chancellor Angela Merkel.	On the other side President Trump.	Any decision on climate change would ultimately be based on what's best for the United States Cohn said.	True
Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	We dont go into policy but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that.	It basically diagnoses what is happening in the climate system Arndt said on a conference call.	According to the report the effect of long term global warming and a powerful El Nio early on pushed 2016 into record setting warmth.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	False
Its a climate crisisThat is why I support a Green New Deal.	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant because it helps put up a wall of protections around those communitiesaddingI think its just now starting to gather steam.	This systemic environmental injustice will only get worse and become more ingrained if climate and environmental policies like the Green New Deal do not specifically focus on lifting up these communities.	It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate which is how to include low income and communities of colorthe frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate changein the legislative process.	False
I think thats going to be determined by the president as we move forward.	The official echoed Can we stay on topic please?	One official replied So I think the fact that the president in his speech today said he wants to come back and renegotiate a better deal for the United States and for the world I think speaks for itself.	One of the administration officials responded If you look at the Europeans if you look at other major economies or allies or partners they have a strong interest in finding common ground with the United States and again we dont want to get out ahead of ourselves here on what may be discussed or not.	Now whats the negotiating process?	False
Democratic Gov.	Its a long thorough piece of legislation that mandates carbon emission reductions across the states economy while accounting for job quality standards and economic equity.	The central provision of House Bill 2020 is to institute a cap and trade mechanism for carbon dioxide across the state a mechanism to cut emissions 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 and 80 percent by 2050.	Theres been incredible work going into that bill Courtney said.	Oregon has also been working on carbon pricing policies since 1997.	False
It is an international crisis.	The Amazon rain forest the lungs which produces 20 of our planets oxygen is on fire Macron wrote on Twitter.	This is the war we are facing.	On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	Members of the G7 Summit lets discuss this emergency first order in two days Meanwhile a spokesperson for the Elyse Palace said that in light of Brazils attitude these recent weeks Macron can only conclude that President Bolsonaro lied to him during the Osaka Summit in June where world leaders agreed on the urgent need to combat climate change pollution and environmental destruction.	False
Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule this effort is all about helping industry.	At the time the Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement one of the agencies born out of the reorganization of the Minerals Management Service estimated that the move would save companies some 288 million over 10 years.	In April 2017 Trump signed an executive order aimed at opening up protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to oil and gas leasing.	The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill including thedivision of the Minerals Management Service the scandal plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations into three new agencies.	The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism.	False
Asked what he would like politicians to do for the Amazon he said that he would like economic alternatives for people here to find a way we can make use of the natural wealth we have here.	Aid worth 22m 18m was announced by Mr Macron at a summit in France of the seven leading industrial powers.	Mr Bolsonaro has previously said his government lacks the resources to fight the record number of fires in the Amazon region but his government is also being accused of slashing funding for environmental protection.	Earlier Brazilian ministers said the G7 money was not needed and they accused foreign powers of wanting control of the Amazon.	It spans a number of countries but the majority of it falls within Brazil.	True
That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non governmental organizations of starting the fires.	As European leaders led by French President Emanuel Macron criticized Brazil for its inaction President Donald Trump waited until Friday evening to say that the United States was willing to help only to add that future trade prospects with Brazil are very exciting.	A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country.	Yet his tune appeared to change after leaders in Europe said a major trade deal could be at risk and many on social media started calling for a boycott of Brazilian products.	Much of the attention has focused on Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a long time critic of the countrys environmental regulations who had tried to minimize the effects of the fires.	True
a greener planet and enhanced crop yields.	Can you imagine the misery and consternation and horror this is going to cause in the corrupt rancid rent seeking world of the Climate Industrial Complex?	Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	What they are saying in their different ways is that global warming as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man made CO2 emissions is bunk or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk.	Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult.	False
For a very long time there has been this perception that Big Oil was too big to take on but here we are the smallest state taking on some of the biggest corporate polluters in the world Kilmartin said in a statement.	Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures.	The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally.	The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products.	True
On a broader note Im confused.	It was because the infrastructure is falling apart.	The citys communist Mayor Bill de Blasio has run it into the ground with stupid financial decisions and misuse of funds.	In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement.	You see theyve got money to pay for illegal aliens healthcare but they cant keep the trains running or the sewage systems from backing up.	False
The E.P.A.	Want climate news in your inbox?	Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter.	had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year.	The new analytical model would significantly reduce that number and would most likely be used by the Trump administration to defend further rollbacks of air pollution rules if it is formally adopted.	False
Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	We need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air he said.	I think about poor communities along the east coast he said.	Theyre the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis he said during the CNN town hall.	He said to pay for his plan he would create a carbon pollution fee on corporations who are industrial scale polluters.	False
In 2016 then Gov.	Thursdays announcement is part of a broader effort by the Trump administration to end a perceived war on coal waged by the Obama administration.	Coal ash in particular has long been a hot button issue in the utility industry.	They face contaminated drinking water toxic dust in the air and serious health threats just because the EPA is choosing to side with polluters over the public.	In 2014 Duke Energy one of the countrys biggest power companies spilled nearly 39000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River causing one of North Carolinas biggest environmental disasters in its history.	True
The latest move was backed by Climate Action 100 a group of nearly 300 international investors carrying roughly 32 trillion in assets.	The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement a non binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years.	The company also plans on linking such targets to the pay of senior executives subject to a shareholder vote in 2020.	The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues.	Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long term benefits.RELATEDA Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change So called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	True
And coal consumption is at its lowest level since 1979.	Yet coal plants are closing everywhere and no new ones are even on the drawing board.	With energy demand projected to stay level that means its coal thats going to yield.	As weve pointed out over and over again the coal industry in the United States has been floundering for years and theres little Trump can do to stop it.	Meanwhile coal mining jobs have cratered from a high of more than 800000 in the 1920s to roughly 76000 today.	True
The New Deal.	And what preceded World War II?	Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	Ocasio Cortez nowwants a Green New Dealto move the U.S. away from fossil fuels and address a variety of injustices she sees in our current economic system.	Themost widely reported climate studyin 2018warned we were on track for a hothouse Earth.	True
It's cents for a nation like Colombia.	Mr Castillo says money is key The first step to protecting the palms will be to allocate the proper amount to the environmental sector.	The ceroxylon quindiuense a distinct species of palm tree which was declared the country's national tree in 1985 is on the verge of extinction and most Colombians are not even aware of the problem.	With the area now safer and more accessible following the 2016 peace deal with the Farc rebels farmers are moving back and the scientists fear for the future of the national tree.	Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have for years been urging the government to buy up the land a move they estimate would cost 10m 7.7m but so far no action has been taken.	False
But where does Buttigieg stand when it comes to implementing an economy wide plan?	This is not about taking money out of the economy he said.	First A carbon tax and dividend.	As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	His pitch sounds like a revenue neutral carbon tax a fee on pollution that gets returned to taxpayers every year instead of going toward a climate resiliency fund or a green project.	True
Wheeler dismissed thereportthis month that found U.S. emissions rose 3.4 percent last year blaming the jump on a manufacturing and industrial surge triggered by the Trump administrations deregulatory effort.	2 job Wheeler said he believed that man has an impact on the climate but whats not completely understood is what the impact is.	In October the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change.	A month later the federal governments National Climate Assessment a congressionally mandated report issued by 13 agencies including the EPA confirmed the findings and warned of cataclysmic damage to the United States economy and human health and by 9F 5C or more by the end of this century.	It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPAs 15th administrator.	False
Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake grassroots support for the facility and change the conversation.	However few are happy to live near the firms bottling plants where they say heavy traffic disturbs their sleep and the companys water collection activities threaten endangered species and destroy the rural character of their areas.	In 2018 the company was accused of illegally disposing of arsenic tainted wastewater from another of its California plants.	The company planned on building a 100000 square foot plant that would extract 400 gallons of water per minute from nearby springs.	If both options were to fail Beykpour suggested we dump this site and move on.	False
For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.	But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association.	Mounting backlog Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect In making the announcement the NPS touted the environmental effects of the new policy saying the e bikes can reduce greenhouse gas emissionswhen used as an alternative to cars and motorcycles and improve poor air quality at national parks by reducing traffic congestion.	Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes.	An e bike is classified asa two or three wheeled cycle with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts 1 h.p.	False
means that its safer than ever to transport oil by pipeline.	These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry.	The Fraser Institute a Canadian free market think tank analyzed U.S. State Department data finding that 70 percent of spills that have occurred in North America were a cubic meter or less hardly the massive leakage environmentalists have implied.	Writing in the Guardian opinionist Julian Brave NoiseCat said that the leak demonstrates the risk of technological and human failure inherent in crude oil pipelines adding that indigenous communities ranchers and workers are forced to live under the constant threat of petroleum poisoning.	Somewhere somehow the vile stuff gets out and when it does it causes untold damage to the environment.	True
The climate is changing and quickly.	Forests are shifting and the first climate refugees have lost their homes.	We help hiring managers and executive search firms access the deep pipeline of qualified candidates of color help organizations build an equitable and inclusive culture internally and advocate for data transparency across the sector.	The time has come for radical thinking for inclusive problem solving for crowd sourced innovation.	AP PhotoNam Y. HuhAP It seems like every week theres a new story about some completely unprecedented unpredictable environmental event.	True
PARIS AGREEMENT ON CLIMATE CHANGE WASHINGTON REACTS TO US PULLOUT The Paris accord will undermine our economy Trump said during the announcement in the White House Rose Garden.	We are in the middle of a clean energy revolution that no single person or group can stop.	President Trumps decision is profoundly in conflict with what the majority of Americans want from our president but no matter what he does we will ensure that our inevitable transition to a clean energy economy continues.	Under the terms of the deal the U.S. the worlds second largest emitter of carbon would be required to reduce fossil fuel emissions around 30 percent by 2025.	It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	True
A strong clean energy economy combats climate change while creating good jobs and a healthy environment said Cooper.	North Carolina Democratic Gov.	With historic storms lashing our state we must combat climate change make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters.	Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings.	For example the Obama administrations pledge to cut U.S. emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 was only projected toavert 0.001 degrees Celsius of projected global warminga year.	True
The global strike set just days before September 23s U.N.	Inspired by the young people leading on todays and committed to standing alongside them in the battle against climate change The global strike follows Thunbergs appearance before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis.	The youth led and the solidarity strikes from groups like show that our country is ready to fight for the big structural change well need to tackle the climate crisis Sen. Elizabeth Warren D MA tweeted Young people have already demonstrated they can take on powerful fossil fuel companies and force politicians to answer their call to action Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT wrote.	Videos are surfacing from protests across the globe showing sizable crowds in places like Ireland Germany Australia Uganda and more Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn participated in the climate strikes in London and condemned President Trump for pulling out of the Paris Climate Agreement.	Climate change is an existential threatand we are already facing the effects.	True
A coal fired power plant in central Poland.	Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting.	In the U.S. President Trump has threatened to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and his administration has moved to allow greater emissions from power plants vehicles and oil and gas operations.	We face a direct existential threat.	China and the U.S. are the top greenhouse gas emitters in the world and their cooperation was the crucial foundation for the Paris Agreement.	True
All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	Brexit could give the UK greater flexibility on how to spend public money on farming enabling much more leeway to reward farmers for capturing carbon in the earth.	Only 3 of the planet's surface is suitable for arable production and 75 billion tonnes of fertile soil is lost to land degradation every year.	In the US some soils are being restored as forests take over poor quality land previously worked by small farmers but others are still being degraded.	The UK is not immune either.	True
So it is important to create jobs and activities that generate income while protecting the environment and helping people to emerge from poverty he declared.	We are faced not with two separate crises one environmental and the other social but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental he said.	In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said.	The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment.	The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems insisting that the two are intimately intertwined.	False
The article detailed aU.N.	Climate Action Summit on Sept. 23an event that promises to spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone.	The dire predictions often repeated inthe media warned of a variety of impending disasters famine drought an ice age and even disappearing nations if the world failed to act on climate change.	In 2008 ABC released an ominous video about what the world would look like in 2015.	But short term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following An Inconvenient Truth a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore.	True
I spend 99 of my life travelling the world by commercial he said.	At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	We have to connect people to where that little bit of extra money is actually going.	The money is then invested in environmental projects such as planting trees or installing solar panels which reduce carbon dioxide in the air by the same amount.	He hopes it will improve conservation environmental protection and help increase the economic benefits of tourism for local communities.	False
In winter the seas are covered in ice and shrouded in darkness it is prone to storms and fog and there is little infrastructure to support industrial activity with just small communities and few jet runways.	Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	On its way back from the Beaufort Sea it lost control of its drilling vessel the Kulluk which ran aground in the Gulf of Alaska in severe weather and had to be towed to Seattle Washington and then scrapped.	The Obama administration banned oil and gas exploration in most of the USs Arctic Ocean and Atlantic Ocean waters last year but President Donald Trump ordered Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke in April to review the ban with the goal of opening up offshore areas for oil and gas drilling.	Over the past 30 days BOEM has been carefully evaluating the EP exploration plan in accordance with federal law and regulationsincluding site specific Environmental Assessmentand conclude with a Finding of No Significant Impact BEOM said in a statement.	False
The Democratic Party has long been dogged by tensions between environmentalists clamoring for action on climate change and labor leaders warning against policies that ostracize the fossil fuel industry which provides high paid construction jobs.	Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	That mirrors the Trump administrations aggressive efforts to unwind the few relatively weak climate regulations that exist and to upend fragile negotiations at the 24th Conference of the Parties in Katowice Poland where diplomats this week are struggling to garner support for basic resolutions recognizing the scientific consensus on global warming.	Thats not the only issue for which the Green New Deal would provide a fix.	Nearly four years later the White House is promoting the same brand of denialism and fealty to the fossil fuel industry at the United Nations climate conference in Poland.	False
A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	It's aimed a transforming the American economy by ending its dependence on fossil fuels investing heavily in renewable energy like solar and wind and sparking large scale job creation.	Second principle is let's create tens of millions of jobs as we renovate our energy economy he said Tuesday.	The resolution introduced by Ocasio Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey a Democrat is broad and light on specifics and seen more as a roadmap for overhauling the economy than a concrete piece of legislation.	Its aspirational goals will help our country combat climate change through clean and renewable energy create millions of new jobs in the process and safeguard our environment for generations to come.	True
Regarding the price of water.	The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it.	I expect that India will need to invest in sea water desalination.	Crores of rupees of the tax payers money will be used for tankers that will cause incredible pollution in the rural areas.Creation of many lakes all over the country to catch and store rain water is a primary objective.	The most likely is distributing air pollution in the stratosphere.I doubt that India will concern itself with niceties of international cooperation.	False
And when it gets hotter our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues.	In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017.	Asphalt warps and melts.	But it goes further than just an ever hotter summer season the emissions from air conditioners and their refrigerants is contributing to climate change.	Extreme heat makes pollution worse which can be dangerous for the very young the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases.	True
Corporate America is also moving on its own.	This is a worldwide issue and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India.	It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change.	That means placing some kind of price on carbon.	Tap into growing public sentiment and work with corporations States and cities are addressing climate change be it with zero emission vehicle goals or the regional cooperative of states in the Northeast that is trying to cap and reduce carbon emissions on its own.	True
However she's more into data than storytelling so the kids take a trip to a glacier allowing her to tell the story of you guessed it climate change which is met with a standing ovation by the audience.	Episode 12 Monster Power teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.Albert one of the students has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is coming for us next for what we've done to this planet!	has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd.	There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids but that wasn't the worst.	Of course conserving energy is a good thing and we should be kind to the earth but this climate change hysteria is taking over.	False
The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	This climate denier for example	In 2007 Time published a cover story titled The Global Warming Survival Guide.	One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers.	Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus The planet is getting warmer and humans are to blame.	False
President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	So what would a 10 foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida?	Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	And yet climate change is already imperiling Mar a Lago the crown jewel of Trumps extensive real estate portfolio and his preferred location for carrying out many of his official presidential duties.	In this scenario wed see a 10 to 12 foot rise in sea level in the US by 2100 which would have dramatic consequences for places like Mar a Lago as you can see in the photo above.	False
We get to assist Poland we get to assist Lithuania we get to assist the Baltic states.	Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling spurred an oil and natural gas boom over the past decade making the U.S. the worlds top hydrocarbon producer.	Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy.	These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF.	We have been promoting US energy around the world and todays decision by the FERC is a very important one DOE Deputy Secretary Dan Brouillette told The Daily Caller News Foundation in an interview.RELATED US Oil Output Hits 12 Million Barrel A Day Milestone Way Ahead Of Schedule The Calcasieu Pass LNG export terminal is the first such project to get FERC approval in two years.	True
They met with leaders from the seven democracies with the worlds most developed economies Canada France Germany Italy Japan the United Kingdom and the United States.	Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change.	Bush in the early 90s.	We tried to explain that to Mr. Trump in Taormina in clear German sentences.	European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker said President Trump doesnt seem to understand that he cant immediately yank the United States out of the Paris Agreement on climate change.	True
Thanks to President Trumps regulatory reform agenda the economy is booming energy production is surging and we are reducing greenhouse gas emissions from major industrial sources EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said at the time.	The largest increase that year came from China.	These achievements flow largely from technological breakthroughs in the private sector not the heavy hand of government.	Today the Chinese account for 30 percent of global emissions.	Meanwhile as the West looks at options to combat climate change we all know that Chinas global emissions continue to rise.	False
If there is poetry in demanding a Green New Deal in the city that birthed the automotive age the citys union legacy gives the call real teeth.	Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of Americas climate changing gases the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning andin which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines.	We are being robbed and pillaged by industry Landrum said her voice rising to a preachers righteous crescendo.	A few job promises and they get to pollute as much as they want.	Such is life and death in the 48217 Michigans most polluted ZIP code home to automotive plants the states only oil refinery and more than 8200 mostly working class African Americans.	True
The EPA can repeal the Clean Power Plan but not the laws of economics Bloomberg tweeted.	As much as we want to see progress made with clean air and clean water with an understanding that we can also grow jobs we have to do so within the framework of what Congress has passed Pruitt said.	It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal.	Former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg whose philanthropy said it would donate 15 million toward supporting operations of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change after the Trump administration announced intentions to withdraw from the Paris climate accord tweeted his criticism of the repeal proposal Monday.	This won't revive coal or stop the US from reaching our Paris goal.	False
Climate is your closet wardrobe.	Guess were at casual tornadoes in growing regions of the country?	The point of the Green New Deal isnt necessarily to save the world but to push socialistic standards for America in everything from how we travel to how we farm.	The climate crisis is real yall Ocasio said on Instagram.	However everyone from economists to climate scientists to Democrat politicians have called the Green New Deal a foolish venture and after having reviewed it personally I can say its a piece of legislation thats really only good enough for kindling.	False
For the past two years the Trump Administration has been an active and meaningful driver for science and technology policy in America.	taken steps to cut back the US Environmental Protection Agency is on record saying that global warming is a hoax invented by the Chinese to attack US manufacturing......	pic.twitter.comJQkiWI4Dx2 White House OSTP February 21 2019 Donald Trump has said he will pull the US out of the Paris international climate agreement!	The initial tweet was posted the White House Office of Science and Technology after it issued a report titled Science Technology Highlights in the Second Year of the Trump Administration.	Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy.	False
Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report.	Essentially the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans.	An extensive report from the Environmental Protection Agency found that including ethanol into the U.S. gas supply is wreaking havoc on the atmosphere and soil.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The ethanol mandate has negatively effected water quality with greater biofuel production resulting in more harmful algae blooms and hypoxia.	True
economy thefossil fuel industry runs thiseconomy it'screated all of thiswealth revolutionizedtransportation communications industry lifted people out of poverty Watters said.	You have a 21 trillionU.S.	Beto who'sdone nothingexcept lose to Sen. Ted Cruz R Texascomesup and says I'm going to take 5 trillion and I'm going to reverse everything and change it all.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He went on to speculate that O'Rourke pushed his climate plan because he felt guilty about the American economy's success because he and other liberals have not had enough input in it.	OCASIO CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition I'm always going to choose the people of this country.	False
It's been a lot more about expanding development opening up to oil and gas.	Hunting in the United States is down.	And the new administration is poised to change that.	And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land.	Last year they contributed 1.2 billion toward conservation and protecting our natural resources.	False
Under Trump the fossil fuel industry has wielded unusual influence over the agency that supposedly regulates it and beleaguered staff fret that its public health mission is at risk of being buried.	Now that he is in the role he said he didnt covet he will be tasked with completing the job of dismantling environmental and climate regulations.	Scott Pruitt was the most scandal plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption said Christy Goldfuss an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress.	Congress must ensure the next EPA administrator is not another industry insider.	Pruitts attempt to halt restrictions on emissions of methane a powerful greenhouse gas was stymied by the courts as were proposed delays to stricter limits of lead in paint and hazy ozone in urban areas.	True
This way it actually stimulates the economy Hansen said.	If its a tax taken by the government it makes the government bigger and it depresses the economy.	suggest 55 per ton yields a dividend of 1000 per legal resident and 3000 for a family with two or more children with one half share for each child a maximum of two half shares per family.	That could be done in a simple way by collecting a fee from the fossil fuel companies that would gradually rise over timea carbon fee and dividend.	According to the group which is led by former Secretaries of State James Baker III and George Shultz and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson their plan would tax fossil fuel companies and redistribute the funds back to Americans in equal portions thereby artificially raising the price of fossil fuels and making renewable energy sources more competitive.	True
Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here.	Aswildfirescontinue torageacross the Westduring a brutally hotsummer on Thursday the US Forest Service released itsnewforest fire management strategy thatfocuses on science and thechanging climate.	Additionally in his op ed the Secretary directly addressed longer hotter drier seasons in the opening paragraphs.Its true that Zinke changed his tuneafter his earlier comments Zinke told reportersThursday that climate change has played a role in the fires and that global temperatures are rising.	Its a breath of fresh air to see science instead of politics inserted into forest and fire management saidKirin Kennedy associatelegislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club in a statement.	In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values.	False
It called for the decarbonization of the economy and100 percent clean energy over the next decade.	Im perfectly willing to take on giant corporations.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Its a danger to the air we breathe.	When we are in the White House we will end the era of fossil fuels and that includes fracking Ten Democrat candidates participated in CNNs seven hour climate change town hall Wednesday and manysignaled support for the implementation of a carbon tax as well as plastic straw bans actions on meat consumption and the end of fracking.	True
President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate.	Trump signed an executive order in late March rescinding the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory.	CLC says the tax could replace federal regulations and the revenues could be given back to Americans in the form of dividends.	False
South Carolina Gov.	Rick Scott another Trump ally.	Mace said she is concerned both with potential environmental damage and the possible threat to South Carolina's 20 billion tourism industry much of which centers around the coast.	The drilling issue has created strange political bedfellows along the East Coast with Democrats and Republicans in some areas united over the issue.	When you have every mayor every community saying 'We don't want this' and now you're going to shove seismic testing down our throats?	False
I believe the climate is changing.	Plans include raising coastal infrastructure protecting vulnerable supply chains and increasing disaster training.	It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures.	Every building has severe damage.	However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms.	False
Next to the putrid mix stood a stainless steel tank full of in a sense money all in the form of decaying rotting food.	That amount of food could feed 19 million people.	But in the booming city of Rio de Janeiro a luxury hotel has been turning trash into treasure for more than a decade long before food waste was at the forefront of anyone's mind.	In Brazil food safety regulations prevent restaurants from giving away food yet 52 million Brazilians are still threatened by food insecurity according to 2014 research by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics.	Still the hotel expects the project to break even in about four years.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The study produced by EPA scientists andpublished in the journal Nature Climate Change concluded that climate change will affect 22 major sectors in the United States including human health infrastructure and agriculture and that the damages in some sectors are estimated to range in the hundreds of billions of US dollars annually by the end of the century if we do nothing and allow carbon emissions to remain high.	Climate change is real.	It is a threat to America and to all of humanity.	Currently Trump is trying to create a senior level government panel that would oppose the scientific facts of climate change and instead promote baseless propaganda from pro pollution crackpots.	False
Go and explain to developing countries why they should continue living in poverty and not be like Sweden.	No one has explained to Greta that the modern world is complex and different and ... people in Africa or in many Asian countries want to live at the same wealth level as in Sweden.	Climate change is an issue which is strongly related to security and peace.	In her UN speech Greta blasted governments for thinking only of money as she said the world was sleepwalking into a climate catastrophe.	She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth.	False
Follow him at This story has been corrected to show the percentage of coal jobs created under Trump was 4 percent.	This doesn't immediately bring everything back but we think it stops further decline of coal fired plants in the United States and that means there will still be some market here.	He put America first and said to the rest of the world we are going to say no and exit the Paris Accord.	Trump is not just ignoring the deadly cost of pollution he's ignoring the clean energy deployment that is rapidly creating jobs across the country said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	True
That includes financial help to make sure that happens.	It's in their drinking water and it's in their soil.	The Trump administration's proposed budget calls for a 31 cut to the budget including cuts to the agency's environmental justice program.	The Agency's press release quoted Pruitt saying I'm focused on getting EPA back to the basics of protecting human health and the environment and one of my top priorities is delivering real results for the people of East Chicago.'	Pruitt went on Since I was sworn in as administrator funding has been secured for drinking water infrastructure upgrades in East Chicago filters and bottled water have been provided to residents and cleanup of contaminated soil has resumed.	False
It can be summed up in one word confusion.	The premise was that the industrial economies were most responsible for the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and that developing countries needed to continue using fossil fuels for the immediate future to grow their economies.	Other history contradicts the idea that the United States signed onto an out of balance deal.	Then came the election of Donald Trump.	As international leaders gathered in New York for this weeks meeting of the United Nations General Assembly they got another taste of the Trump Administrations leadership style.	True
The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	And its these three things wealth growth and technology which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth not 240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Here were told that the U.S. economy will take a 10 hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions.	The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed.	True
The only force that I know of on the planet that can deliver innovation as quickly as we need it is the free enterprise system said former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. now the executive director of RepublicEn a group urging Republicans to support a carbon tax.	A steep enough global economy wide price on carbon could do it but thats not likely to happen said Taylor the president of the libertarian Niskanen Center.	Last yearSens.	In a surprise move Gov.	A number of insurgent left wing Democrats running in the 2018 midterms including star New York City congressional candidate Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are coalescing around a so called Green New Deal a loose set of proposals to spend trillions in federal dollars on renewable energy projects coastal fortifications and home weatherization retrofits.Polling released last month shows swelling support for a federal policy guaranteeing a high wage job in a green industry to anyone who wants one.	True
Pouring toxic waste into rivers filling the air with noxious fumes polluting forests and open countrysidethese are signs of a war on the environment and sadly they can still be found in certain nations.	The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	The fact that a president keeps his promises is usually considered a good thing.	During his presidential campaign Donald Trump promised Americans that if elected he would make the United States energy independent and get out of the Paris climate deal.	That doesnt put them at war with the environment and much less at war with the young and the unborn.	False
The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016.	With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	California should be called the Smoggy State.	Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	Bakersfield Calif. wasin second place for ozone pollution.	False
As for the water it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents.	It's not a good week for the Delta smelt.	Trump a proud climate change skeptic attributes the fires to lousy management.	Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians he says.	Trump threatened to withhold future federal aid if Californiadoes not get on the ball implying that the state's environmental woes were its own fault.	False
The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	As relief they want the government to pursue policies to keep warming in check.	Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest.	Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week.	In our view the Oregon lawsuit is an unconstitutional attempt to use a single court to control the entire nations energy and climate policy Wood said adding the plaintiffs in Oregon are ignoring the fact that clean and responsible production and use of fossil fuels remains vital to the health and well being of the American people.	False
We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	CNN Republican Florida Gov.	Climate change will be a part of his office's mission.	Since day one my administration has been laser focused on addressing our pressing environmental challenges.	It also created the chief science officer position.	False
The question is what are we going to do about it and at what cost?	Christina DeConcini director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute said the US needs a fact based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure homes and businesses.	The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non competitive.	In a now infamous 2012 tweet Trump claimed that global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing non competitive.	Climate change is not just a threat to our planet's future it's a threat to our communities today.	False
From there it can be shipped to the Gulf Coast and potentially lucrative markets abroad.	It has the capacity to move half of the oil produced daily in North Dakota the nations second leading producer behind Texas.	Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline.	The 3.8 billion pipeline built by Texas based Energy Transfer Partners has been operating since June 1 moving oil from North Dakota through South Dakota and Iowa to a distribution point in Illinois.	Energy industry officials applauded Boasbergs ruling with North Dakota Petroleum Council President Ron Ness calling the pipeline a critical part of American energy infrastructure.	False
They say the president favours development over conservation.	Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?	Scientists say the Amazon has suffered losses at an accelerated rate since Mr Bolsonaro took office in January.	As the largest rainforest in the world the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming.	Deforestation of Brazil's Amazon rainforest increased by 29.5 in 12 months the highest rate since 2008 the country's space agency reports.	False
In addition to the Air Force the water district lawsuits name 10 firms they say were associated with providing chemicals to the base Elementis Chromium Inc. Occidental Chemical Corp. Honeywell Inc. BASF Corp. PPG Inc. E.I.	Water districts are constantly balancing risks against cost he said adding Theyre committed to delivering water that is as free as possible of contaminants but doing so is expensive.	Sacramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply the water districts lawsuit filed in federal court in Sacramento says as part of its claim seeking 1.1 billion in damages.	The lawsuits demands more than 1.4 billion to clean up the polluted wells install treatment equipment and replace wells that have been decommissioned for being polluted with chromium 6.	Contaminated with plating wastes solvents acids waste oils paint thinners strippers and sludges and other hazardous compounds the lawsuits stated.	False
President Donald Trump promised to lessen regulations on coal mines to put miners back to work.	Its the latest move by the Trump administration to ease the regulatory burden on the coal industry.	UWAG argues the regulation will cause negative impacts on jobs due to the excessive costs of compliance which were grossly underestimated by EPA and regulatory burdens forcing plant closures.	Trump claimed he wanted EPA to go back to basics and focus on clean air and water in his Administration but one of the first actions by his EPA Administrator is an attempt to gut an important water pollution safeguard Hitt said.	Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants.	False
Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems.	Sea level rise and warming temperatures threaten cities like Miami.	This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Climate change and fossil fuels have already disturbed the daily lives of Floridians.	False
The United States is still a party to the 1992 UNFCCC which oversees the Paris agreement although Trump announced in June that he would withdraw the nation from the global climate pact and cease funding the Green Climate Fund which supports clean energy and climate adaptation projects in vulnerable countries.	The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels which have been linked to global warming.	Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the scientific body the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.	The 30 member Senate panel which allocates federal funds to various government agencies and organizations approved a 51 billion spending bill for the State Department and foreign operations which included an amendment to continue funding the U.N.	The United States has usually contributed to around 20 percent of the UNFCCC budget.	False
California Democratic Gov.	This has to do with active forest management.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke began advocating similar policy prescriptions earlier in 2018 after President Donald Trump blamed Californias bad environmental laws for creating a wildfire prone environment.RELATED Trump Administration Is Taking Its Fight Against Bad Environmental Laws Straight To California California forests have grown drier and less healthy from overcrowded trees infestations of bark beetles and the effects of climate change the LA Timeswrites.	False
Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security.	She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelts New Deal Lyndon B. Johnsons Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know how and capability.	The Green New Deal would be paid for the same way we paid for the original New Deal World War II the bank bailouts tax cuts for the rich and decades of war with public money appropriated by Congress Ocasio Cortez said.	WASHINGTON AP Democrats including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York are calling for a Green New Deal intended to transform the U.S. economy to combat climate change and create thousands of jobs in renewable energy.	She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing.	False
Participants included the CEOs of Italian oil giant ENI British Petroleum ExxonMobil and Norways Statoil as well as scientists and managers of major investment funds.	He urged participants to use their demonstrated aptitude for innovation to address two of the great needs in todays world the care of the poor and the environment.	At the same time it is an immense opportunity to encourage efforts to ensure fuller access to energy by less developed countries as well as diversifying energy sources and promoting the sustainable development of renewable forms of energy.	That includes transitioning to efficient clean energy sources.	Francis said that modern society with its massive movement of information persons and things requires an immense supply of energy.	False
Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour.	While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part.	While Dr Stockin says that global warming may be playing apart in the rising sea temperatures most experts say that it's important not to jump to conclusions about the role of humans in these cases.	So what could be behind these cases?	It means that if one pilot whale encounters a problem then it can have an impact on the entire group.	False
The trains are still coming and new fossil fuel projects are still being proposed were in the midst of a worldwide climate emergency and were fighting back.	Its time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time.	Railroads engage in interstate commerce which means the buck stops with the federal government.	Ultimately Shut Down Fossil Fuels is calling for an end to oil trains oil terminals and all fossil fuels.	Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	False
An early overview of the plan since removed from Ocasio Cortez website promised economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision making and even vowed to eliminate farting cows.	In addition to slashing carbon emissions the deal calls for widespread wealth redistribution to counteract systemic injustices and includes provisions for universal healthcare and taxpayer funded college tuition.	Living in the world as it is isnt an argument against working towards a better future.	The legislation has been ridiculed from all sides for its proposed abolition of air travel and fossil fuel powered vehicles as well as its estimated cost of over 50 trillion over twice the worth of the entire US economy.	The world as it is has the option of taking the subway rather than a taxi Moore continued.	False
At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one.	Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another.	Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses.	False
The United States is still reeling from last years megadisasters.	The damages from the hurricanes heat waves wildfires and tornadoes in 2017 cost at least 306 billion.	President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases the Clean Power Plan.	The recent personnel shake up across the federal government doesnt bode well for the fight against climate change either.	And former White House adviser George David Banks who suggested that Trump could rejoin the Paris agreement resigned last month after he failed to get a security clearance due to past marijuana use.	False
TheGreen New Dealand its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change.	When capitalism stumbles badly producing degraded lands and gaping inequalities socialistic solutions rise in popularity because their incentives are not tied to profits.	This is not the first time socialism new deals and the environment have intersected.	Much the way todays Green New Deal seeks to redress both economic and environmental impoverishment Marshall sought to replace private profit with a broader public spiritedness that aimed for long term stability ending cut and run practices and ultimately strengthening communities.	When massive problems develop cross jurisdictional lines and are associated with market failures big government responses can seem like the only possible solution.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests but three stand out Brazil Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo.	Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests but three stand out Brazil Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
Steyer then shifted focus to cleaning up the air and water in the black and brown communities where our pollution is concentrated and claimed it would create millions of middle class union jobs.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate crisis America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles California.	Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America.	False
It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote.	As you can see we're continuing the president's agenda post haste.	While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and for the first time begin regulating a set ofharmful chemicalsfound in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans.	He alsorecommended freezing miles per gallon standards for cars and light trucks after the 2020 model yearand preventing California and other states from setting tougher standards saying it will improve safety andkeep prices lower for consumers.	Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as PruittWheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change.	False
It's made us more sustainable environmentally and also economically.	He says times are tough for dairy farmers so this gives him a new stream of revenue.	We only use about 10 percent of what we make and the rest is fed onto the electricity grid Melnik explains.	which has installed a Grind2Energy system.	It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region.	False
California Gov.	Trumpcampaigned on a promise to withdraw the U.S.from the accord saying it would lead to higher energy prices and hurt domesticbusinesses from being able to compete globally.	The Paris Accord would undermineour economy hamstring ourworkers weaken oursovereignty impose unacceptable legal risk and put us at a permanentdisadvantageto the other countiesof the world.	The internationalagreement which was signed in 2015 and went into effect seven months ago is considered a major part theenvironmental legacy of the Obama administration.	AndWall Street fund managers and large businesses are moving away from fossil fuels due to market conditions further contributing to increased use of cleaner energy sources.	False
It is the most destructive threat to America and mankind.	Climate has been a big part of our campaign and we mentioned our carbon fee and dividend plan during the debate last week.	A DNC debate focused on climate change would show the world that America intends to lead again on this issue and would be a smart place to discuss the key tenets of the Green New Dealinfrastructure green jobs and clean air and waterand how to put a price on carbon she told the Daily Beast.	Jay Inslee who has put global warming at the center of his campaign.	Steve Bullock former Colorado Gov.	False
In a video that was shared widely including by celebrities such as James Corden the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the big structural political economic stuff.	Monbiot concludes that we need to go straight to the heart of capitalism and overthrow it.	The amount of energy per unit of GDP in the United States has fallen steadily for several decades.	When they dont save they change course unlike politicians who fear public embarrassment and throw good money after bad.	Conservatives understand this.	False
I think the best possible path to do that is through a cap and trade system he said.	One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use.	In response to a question from Priya Subberwal a New York University student Mr. ORourke made clear that he prefers cap and trade over a straight tax on carbon.	We should certainly price carbon.	Under such a system the government issues a limited number of allowances or permits to companies and other entities that emit carbon dioxide essentially creating a cap on emissions.	False
What gives you the confidence that if this economy continues to roll the way we think it will that will actually happen?	The Trump administration wants one standard for the country as well as a much more relaxed fuel economy target than the one proposed under President Obama.	I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally.	Already momentum is building in the House for taxing carbon as well as a Green New Deal to fight climate change.	We heard that there was an emissions rise in 2018 which you attributed to a cold winter a hot summer and also to more economic activity said Sen. Shelley Moore Capito R WV.	False
We are currently on track for a world that could displace billions of people from their homes Thunberg warned this week during a speech accepting Amnesty International's Ambassador of Conscience Award.	Support for a school climate strike has since spread across the globe.	Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes respect of indigenous land sustainable agriculture protecting biodiversity environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy said 17 year old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar.	Paris and its related pledges would undermine U.S. competitiveness his spokesman said.	I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves.	False
We have an enormous opportunity to make them a part of the climate solution and for both economic and environmental reasons we should take it.	During CNNs marathon town hall on climate change Wednesday candidates vowed to end oil gas and coal leasing on federal land as part of a shared goal to decarbonizing the economy and prevent catastrophic warming.	Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps.	We actually need to undo the damage that this administration has done and then expand the lands that were protecting in our country Castro said.	Castros 10 trillion climate plan also released this week calls for designating new national monuments parks and wildlife refuge and outlines a so called Green Opportunity Corps that would put 15000 young adults to work in areas like public land conservation.	False
The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production.	The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station 248 miles 399 km away from any natural resources.	One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it at the exact and right time it is needed.	We are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime anywhere in any condition said Didier Toubia co founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms.	False
Ernest Moniz who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration took part in the summit and said one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low carbon system.	Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change.	The idea of a carbon tax a fee charged onto companies according to the amount of carbon emissions their plants emit into the atmosphere has been recommended as a market friendly method to controlling CO2 pollution.	In addition a carbon tax would cost over 500000 jobs in manufacturing and more than 1 million jobs by 2030.	Most who took part in the summit agreed that afee on carbon emissions is pivotal in reforming the U.S. energy sector according to an Axios report.	False
Etc.	not believing in science because recent hurricanes have been bad and climate change is causing it and blah blah blah.	Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	Similarly California had a historic drought that recently came to an end.	Who says?	False
A recent study found the region has shifted from a warming trend of 0.32 Cdecade during 19791997 to a cooling trend of 0.47 Cdecade during 19992014.	The New York Times has taken warnings about global warming to a whole new level publishing a three part series suggesting a potential apocalypse from melting ice sheets if humans keep pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False
Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said.	Lets help bring the death knell to this industry thats done so much harm.	Divest from the fossil fuel industry De Blasio told the Vermont Democrat at the time.	She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industrys license to operate.	We just acted and I want to urge every city every county every state to do the same divest.	False
We only wish the ad had noted how much Carlos Curbelo has taken from Big Oil.	In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money.	The super PAC Climate Hawks Vote which supports candidates with a progressive energy agendahas been running ads against Curbelo that point to his history of receiving donations from fossil fuel companies including Chevron and Exxon Mobil.This cycle hisNo.	The incumbent is Republican Rep. Carlos Curbelo and the party apparatus is the National Republican Congressional Committee whose coffers this cycle contain nearly 7 million in donations from the oil and gas industry.	Debbie Mucarsel Powell is a climate champion and the advocate South Floridians need as they watch sea levels rise see beaches destroyed by red tide and live with the increasing threat of stronger more powerful hurricanes.	False
Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica plays a key role in ocean circulation due to the deep waters in the region leading it to have outsized consequences.	It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	Upside down rivers of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up leading to a rise in sea levels.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	False
The resolution has few details but it aims to overhaul the U.S. economy and spread wealth more evenly.	Instead it calls for lots of spending to create among other things infrastructure and transport that don't rely on fossil fuels.	All great American programs everything from The Great Society to The New Deal started with a vision for our future said co sponsor Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y.	Moniz now CEO of Energy Futures Initiative agrees that the U.S. needs to pick up the pace of its shift away from carbon but he calls the decade long time frame impractical.	It calls for a speedy shift in energy generation from fossil fuels to renewable sources like wind and solar and for a fair and just transition for all communities and workers.	False
The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer familythe billionaire megadonors whogave more than 15 million to Trumps 2016 campaign.	The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts.	A retired Princeton physics professor with no expertise in climatology Happer has served as President Donald Trumps deputy assistant for emerging technologies on the National Security Council since September 2018.	While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement.	Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	False
We've become much richer country and that's a good thing not a bad thing because that great wealth allows us to take care of people' Trump said.	He said the domestic industry is creating 'tremendous wealth and LNG is being sought over all over Europe and all over the world.'	I want clean water I want a wealthy country.	I want a spectacular country with jobs with pensions with so many things and that's what we're getting so I want to be very careful at the same time at the same time it's very important to me very important to me we have to maintain this incredible this incredible place that we've all built.	'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water thank you very much everybody I appreciate it thank you' he concluded.	False
Do you know what?	According toDaniel Rothman professor of geophysics in the MIT Department of Earth Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences and co director of MITs Lorenz Center we are fast approaching thresholds of catastrophe in the carbon cycle which make doom almost inevitable.	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	Its saying that if left unchecked the carbon cycle would move into a realm which would be no longer stable and would behave in a way that would be difficult to predict.	First lets not forget it that itis flatly contradicted by the recent bombshell study suggesting that the effects of carbon dioxide on global warming have been overstated that the computer models are running too hot and that were not about to fry any time soon.	False
It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.	Consequently an initial warming leads to more emission leading to more warming and more emission.	Just as bad the permafrost melting would continue after 2100 which would lock us into even more warming.	A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some.	False
Analysis Is the war on coal really over?	It informs decision makers.	Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts.	We can debate the issues we can have different viewpointsbut we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ...	The agency officials initially scheduled to speak during the conference areAutumn Oczkowski a research ecologist at the EPAs National Health and Environmental Effects Research Laboratory Atlantic Ecology Division in Rhode Island andRose Martin a postdoctoral fellow at the same EPAlaboratory according to The New York Times which first reported the story.	False
It wasnt just global warming.	Because I heard the U.S. president speak.	But in Washington where science is increasingly political the fact that oceans and atmosphere are warming and that the heat is propelling storms into superstorms has become as sensitive as talking about gun control in the wake of a mass shooting.	In Florida scientists say Gov.	The text box Concerns that the U.S. is dodging questions on global warming.	False
Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	TheEnergy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act is notable in that itsthe first bipartisan carbon tax bill introduced in Congress in about 10 years.	More than a dozen federal agencies just warned us that if we dont take dramatic action climate change will knock 10 percent off of our GDP by the end of this century Deutch the bills Democratic co sponsorstated to Bloomberg Environment.	In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices revenue from the tax would be given back out to households.Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one third over a 10 year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050 compared to 2015 emission levels.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives.	Sea level rise is accelerating.	3F of average temperature increase and three feet of sea level rise by 2050.	The EPA matters because climate change is right up there with the national debt as a threat to national security.	Its pure unadulterated selfishness.	False
We would make sure its eliminated and no more subsidies for either one of those either any fossil fuel Biden said Ten Democrat candidates including Biden and Sanders will participate in the CNN hosted climate change town hall Wednesday evening.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Just to clarify would there be any place for fossil fuels including coal and fracking in a Biden administration Bash asked during Julys Democrat debate in Detroit.	Its a danger to the air we breathe.	We would work it out.	False
The end of the document contains a QA one of which deals with the plans funding The Federal Reserve can extend credit to power these projects and investments new public banks can be created as in WWII to extend credit and a combination of various taxation tools including taxes on carbon and other emissions and progressive wealth taxes can be employed.	The final Green New Deal willmitigate deeply entrenched racial regional and gender based inequalities in income and wealth including without limitation ensuring that federal and other investment will be equitably distributed to historically impoverished low income deindustrialized or other marginalized communities in such a way that builds wealth and ownership at the community level.	Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	The Green New Deal it says shall provide all members of our society across all regions and all communities the opportunity training and education to be a full and equal participant in the transition including through a job guarantee program to assure a living wage job to every person who wants one.	The deal shall ensure a just transition for all workers low income communities communities of color indigenous communities rural and urban communities and the front line communities most affected by climate change pollution and other environmental harm including by ensuring that local implementation of the transition is led from the community level.	False
These emerging giants have chosen instead to emphasise the historical responsibility of rich nations to lead the way and provide financing to poor countries.	If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up I would say today in Madrid governments fucked up said Mohamed Adow Director of Power Shift Africa.	China and India the world's No.	Diplomats from rich nations emerging giants and the world's poorest countries each for their own reasons found fault with a draft agreement put forward by host Chile in a botched attempt to strike common ground.	People across the world must rise to save the planet.	False
The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	And its these three things wealth growth and technology which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth not 240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Here were told that the U.S. economy will take a 10 hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions.	The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed.	False
Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	Accompanying every hurricane are numerous stories in mainstream media outlets suggesting disaster could have been averted had American elected officials done more to stop global warming which left wing pundits continue to insist is almost entirely being caused by humans carbon dioxide CO2 emissions.	And from 2006 to 2016 the United States has averaged an annual reduction in its carbon dioxide emissions of 1.2 percent according to an analysis by BP.	And if all that werent enough its absolutely absurd to say Trump is any way responsible for global warming because even if it is true humans are the primary cause of warming carbon dioxide emissions actually dropped in Trumps first two years in office.	However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence.	False
