This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger.	This dystopian idea attracted attention recently after Bernie Sanders brought it up at the last Democrat presidential debate saying people need to be need to curb population growth.	Absent from Bernies argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what itll do to the economy and public services two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about.	Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone!	Are you an insider at Google Facebook Twitter or any other tech company who wants to confidentially reveal wrongdoing or political bias at your company?	True
What do they want?	Fifth to end oppression and bring about the redistribution of power.	Fourth to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone.	I am sympathetic to the first of their aims making the environment a political priority and declaring climate change to be a global emergency.	When do they want it?	True
Like this story?	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	People need jobs the Gulf Coast states need revenue and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil.	The Project on Government Oversight warned in February that the uncompetitive lease system used by the government to auction sites allows energy companies to secure offshore leases for a pittance.	False
The world must wake up.	Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey retweeted links to a report signed by more than 11000 scientists who argue that the population must be stabilizedand ideally gradually reducedwithin a framework that ensures social integrity.	The crisis touches every aspect of our lives.	Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	Citizens generally are more concerned about getting a good education obtaining better healthcare and achieving political freedoms than they are tackling climate change according to a 2015 survey from the United Nations.	True
Were addressing the issue.	We have our own plan.	Were moving forward.	The analysis comes on the heels of two gut wrenching climate reports one by the United Nations and another authored by scientists from more than a dozen federal agencies in the U.S. that warn the world is running out of time to stave off catastrophic and potentially irreversible climate change.	And the agency is continuing its push to open Alaskas fragile Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling holding public meetings as part of its ongoing environmental review process Alaska Public Media reported.	False
We cant sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying especially when you know theres another way.	My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	It deals specifically with reducing greenhouse gas emissions particularly carbon dioxide CO2 with the stated objective of combatting global warming.	Meanwhile he should probably think about terminating that video.	He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States.	False
It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050.	True
Defendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earths climate and sea levels the complaint states.	Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences came together and took courageous action.	This is for you and its real.	A lot of you people are going to be alive and youre going to be alive in a horrible situation Brown told Californian lawmakers at a committee hearing shortly before the vote.	California is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health economy and future said Fred Krupp president of the Environmental Defense Fund.	False
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	We're for clean air and water but at the same time we're for reasonable regulations Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters.	California Gov.	Speaking to MSNBCs Andrea Mitchell at an environmentalsummitin San Francisco last week Brown tore into Trump for the presidents controversial tweets about the death toll in Puerto Rico from last years Hurricane Maria and urged voters to vote for Democrats in Novembers midterm elections in an effort to thwart Trumps agenda.	Its bloody combat.	True
Technology could help here too.	The team's eventual aim is to capture the atoll's whole ecosystem from molecule upwards so it can help local governments and communities evaluate future risks and make better decisions.	The operation only the second ever will be led by Island Conservation a US NGO that protects endangered species by removing invasive ones.	Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando who was keen that it should become an ecological haven it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet.	It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	False
We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life.	Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement expanding drilling on federal lands and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks.	Within the first few months of the year incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them.	Rep. Raul Grijalva the Arizona Democrat tipped to chair the House Natural Resources Committee says Americans can expect the committee to probe the financial costs and public health risks associated with Interior Department policies under Trump.	The Trump administration has targeted dozens of rules.	True
My question is Why us?	How are they going to get there?	And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block.	And to be honest thats why its being suggested the employee said.	There are a lot of folks who simply wont do the move.	True
Doctors will also have to screen patients for adverse childhood experiences that may impact a patients physical or mental health or the provision of health care services to the patient.	It also calls for guidance regarding the identification of students and compliance with applicable nondiscrimination laws which would include the Equality Act if passed by Congress a big legislative priority of congressionalDdemocrats.	Lets take a look at how they intend to use it.	Some of the proposed specifics are harmless such as section 3 which says that the developed policies should prevent and respond to bullying and harassment.	Section G of House Bill No.	True
The authors themselves are anxious that their research is not misunderstood.	To be honest it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time.	These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work.	In reality nothing is quite that straightforward.	But unlike those figures which relied on one line of evidence the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result.	True
If the human race wants a future that looks like utopia and not dystopia it needs to address such concerns Lagarde said predicting that in 50 years time oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence.	As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists with former UN secretary general Ban Ki moon accusing Trump of standing on the wrong side of history.	Speaking before a major petroleum producing nation Lagarde hastened to add that these necessary measures are well understood in Saudi Arabia.	Recent reports however suggest that Trumps move has drawn numerous countries in his wake with a number of other nations quietly withdrawing from the Paris energy goals.	True
waterways and pose far reaching effects on the safety of the nation's tap water for more than 100 million Americans.	The Obama administration claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power power in the hands of the federal government over landowners Wheeler said.	Even a child understands that small streams flow into large streams and lakes which provide drinking water for so many Americans said Craig Cox senior vice president for agriculture and natural resources for the EnvironmentalWorking Group.	The debate over the water rule was part of a larger political flashpoint over environmental issues during the 2016 presidential campaign as Trump tried to appeal to rural Americans exasperated by federal regulations and the loss of property rights.	States would overseemost ditches terrain that fills with water during or in response to rainfall certain wetlands that have been used to grow crops stormwater control ponds and water and wastewater treatment systems.	True
It is inherently political like everything else Its in the U.S. Constitution Article 1 Section 8 to promote the progress of science and useful arts.	And my interpretationof the expression useful arts is engineering.	As thousands of activists and scientists around the world gather to March for Science Bill Nye has a U.S. Constitution lesson for Donald Trump that proves he must advance scientific causes.	In an interview on MSNBCs AM Joy Nye said that it explicitly states in the Constitution that the U.S. government must promote the progress of science and useful arts something the Trump administration isnt even close to upholding.	Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration I just want to remind the administration that science is political.	True
Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	We will push our allies in the movement to use racial equity in their analyses by identifying disparate impacts of pollution and climate disruption and designing remedies that improve conditions for the most overburdened first.	The Peoples Climate Movement takes to the streets on Saturday April 29th shedding light on the intertwined destinies of clean energy and employment in the United States and around the world.	Our hope rests not in convincing the willfully ignorant to change their ways but in the coming together of broad based peoples movements prepared to act to take back the initiative moving from resistance to power.	Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change.	True
Assuring that all have life liberty and the pursuit of happiness is a fundamental moral commitment that we share as citizens working together for the common good of all people and the whole creation.	Robert A. Franek is a part of Politicus Policy Discussion in which writers draw connections between real lives and public policy.	Securing the long term future of civil rights for LGBT people womens access to heath care and the flourishing of our environment that we may all enjoy life liberty and the pursuit of happiness rests not only on getting to the bottom of the Trump Russia scandal and draining the swamp in his administration along with the scandal covering right denying profit seeking in Congress but also on preventing the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.	When the air we breathe and the water we drink are imminently threatened so that corporations can make more money life liberty and the pursuit of happiness are on the line.	Rolling back environmental protection regulations and willful denying of scientific data to forestall efforts to fight climate change is a direct threat to each persons right to life liberty and pursuit of happiness.	False
They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos.	He said that the new name needs to appeal to people who are unscientific to help them understand the severity of the problem and inspire them to make more eco friendly life choices and pro climate choices at the ballot box.	Good brand names instill a clear message or even a direct call to action.	In other words it needs to scare people into voting Democrat.	Sometimes a brand name needs to be hyperbolic to truly capture hearts and minds.	False
Department of Homeland Security.	The suit seeks a ruling that a border wall with Mexico must go through normal environmental reviews which could block construction or at least cause major delays.	Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University.	Now Curiel will be hearing a case about the wall.	On Friday he heard two and a half hours of arguments and saidthat he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews.	True
We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how were going to contribute.	The main concern is the desires of the constituency who are massively opposed to this project Riggi told The Daily Caller New Foundation.	But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	We have an aerial refueling and drone mission there.	Theres an issue with that.	False
Its the biggest threat of all.	Theres no denying the magnitude of the water crisis in the U.S. and abroad.	Early in his tenure former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt prioritized fixing Superfund the struggling and financially strapped program responsible for cleaning up the nations most contaminated sites.	Last years Fourth National Climate Assessment the work of hundreds of scientists at more than a dozen federal agencies including the EPA documents significant changes in water quality and quantity across the country and warns that water security in the United States is increasingly in jeopardy.	Pruitt said that it wasnt a lack of money that was plaguing the program but rather poor leadership and poor focus on the part of the Obama administration.	True
Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research.	TheFund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News but hasno involvement in articles they produce the papers disclosure notes.	Thursdays report dovetails with the groups previous investigations showing the oil company hid knowledge about climate change from the public for years.	Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund RBF Rockefeller Family Fund RFF and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times report.	It also pressured various attorneys general into investigating Exxon namely for the purposes of bringing the company up on racketeering charges.	False
Most of us would be excited with any life said Mary Voytek an astrobiology senior scientist for NASA.	While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article.	We still have a long way to go in our understanding said Seewald who was not involved in the study.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	NASA and others are quick to point out this latest discovery does not mean theres life on Enceladus ehn SEHL uh duhs but that there may be conditions favorable for life.	False
But even before the report was made public Americans were extremely worried about climate change.	In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll 83 of Democrats thought the US should be doing more compared to 62 of independents and 26 of Republicans.	That's up from 2010 when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them.	The Trump administration chose to speed up release of the new report which is required by law putting it out on Black Friday instead of in December.	Eight in 10 Democrats 54 of independents and 22 of Republicans thought in August that climate change has an impact the fires.	True
We have young people that bring a lot of great qualities but maybe they dont bring a lot of life experience he said.	I guess I can understand if someone has not had a lot of life experience and theyre proposing something thats extremely unrealistic well impossible.	are expected to unveil this week does just that calling on the nation to promote the international exchange of technology expertise products funding and services with the aim to reclaim U.S. leadership on climate change to help other countries achieve a Green New Deal.	The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others.	Lennox Yearwood president of the national nonprofitHip Hop Caucus that he found it interesting at the activist would support a Green New Deal given Yearwoods previous service as an officer in the U.S. Air Force Reserve Chaplain Corps.	False
She wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths focusing on environmental justice and enforcement said one of the sources.	At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail.	Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent.	While activist groups say they are generally happy with Harris environmental credentials she has drawn their criticism since launching her presidential bid.	She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe.	True
Media reports suggest that Professor Happer and his fellow propagandists will target the Fourth National Climate Assessment which was prepared by leading researchers in the United States and concluded last November The impacts of climate change are already being felt in communities across the country.	The petition is being circulated for signature by Myron Ebell movement greatest threat freedom says trump adviser myron ebell of the Competitive Enterprise Institute a lobby group for free market fanatics which has become infamous for championing climate change denial It does not disclose its sources of funding but is known to have received money from ExxonMobil and conservative billionaires trump global climate change denial environment such as the Koch brothers.	The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers and the recruitment of supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy echoes the campaign by Joseph Stalins regime to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the disastrous lysenko soviet union russia548786 pseudo scientific theories of Trofim Lysenko.	dire economic forecast climate change dont believe2118152002 Professor Happer who has not published any research on climate change in a reputable science journal has been celebrated for many years by climate change contrarians and deniers around the world.	Although the report was subjected to rigorous review by Americas top experts at the National Academy of Sciences it was rejected by President Trump who told journalists I dont believe it.	True
With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion.	This quiet revolution may simply be a welcome return to common sense and realism.	Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron.	After all once the photo ops are finished and the politically correct accords are duly signed amidst solemn brow furling political leaders must get back to the business of meeting the real needs of their citizenswhich all depend on the availability of affordable energy.	In the process global warming enthusiasts are being swept out he writes.	False
It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	And most engaged in the effort are using chemical flame retardants.	So Im not sure what he was recommending' he told the San Francisco Chronicle.	The only broadly discussed proposal for diverting water away from the Pacific came three years ago from a group calledTree People which called for more Californians to collect rainwater draining off roofs and down concrete streets.	That move gives Californians access to unemployment assistance food aid and legal and mental health counseling and makes federal financial assistance available to cities and counties that will have to repair billions of dollars worth of infrastructure damage.	False
Why do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel said Jim Wilson a 71 year old retired mail carrier from Placerville outside Sacramento.	The state agencies weighed in ahead of a public meeting Thursday in Sacramento the only opportunity for people to register their opinions in person to the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.	Jerry Brown and others to request a similar exemption.	Comments can be submitted online through March 9.	Its critical to keep the dollars at home create the jobs locally instead of sending the money overseas and creating jobs in foreign places he said.	True
The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	The IPCC noted the literature indicates that the pricing of emissions is relevant but needs to be complemented with other policies to drive the required changes in line with 1.5C consistent cost effective pathways.	However the groups report tacitly acknowledges the unlikelihood that governments will enact astronomical taxes on energy.	However the costs of meeting that goal are high based on the IPCCs own figures.	True
the former secretary of state asked.	I think its somewhat appropriate that somebody with a pseudoscience degree is here pushing pseudoscience in front of our committee Massie said before Kerry fired back.	It sounds like youre questioning the credentials of the presidents advisers but I dont think we should question your credentials today.	But there werent human beings that was a different world folks Kerry said.	Massie asked.	True
Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers but it will come at a price penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers.	A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform.	That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	True
People from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood.	The migrant caravan made up of thousands of mostly young males from Honduras and other Central American countries arrived at the U.S. Mexico border in November seeking asylum.	The video published on Dec. 13 largely reflects arguments made by some media outlets in the past few months that migrant caravans to the U.S. are a preview of climate migrations meaning people driven from their homes due to global warming.	Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed.	The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent startling example Gore tweeted Monday.	False
People are suffering.	We are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	Caught on camera her stare sparked a thousand tweets and divided the public.	People are dying.	We are all Greta another resistance activist proclaimed sharing a photo of Thunberg scowling at Trump next to a photo of her meeting his predecessor Barack Obama.	True
The next secretary should respect public desire for strong environmental standards and an end to corporate favoritism.	It is high time for the glare of sunlight to focus on Deputy Secretary David Bernhardt.	Unfortunately for the American people Zinke leaves behind a deputy secretary with similar ethical concerns.	And in a statement posted to Twitter the ongoing agency chief said he cannot justify spending thousands of dollars defending myself and my family against false allegations.	Because when America prospers the world is safer.	True
Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report from Washington.	HAZARD Ky.	Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy.	President Donald Trump who appointed Pruitt and shares his skepticism of established climate science promised to kill the Clean Power Plan during the 2016 campaign as part of his broader pledge to revive the nations struggling coal mines.	For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.	False
It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state funded green energy projects.	There needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber ready for the governors signatureEnglebright said Friday.	As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers Cuomo is scrambling to act on long neglected progressive demands.	That support cuts across demographics including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites.	The support breaks down similarly across the state with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	False
It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought flood rising seas and other climate impacts.	The Group of Seven gathering the biggest western democracies comprises Britain Canada France Germany Italy Japan and the United States.	Top officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations gathered in Rome Italy today amid growing concerns over the US administration's moves to unravel policies aimed at stalling global warming.	Greenpeace was holding a sit in outside Monday's meeting calling on officials to maintain their commitments to reduce greenhouse gases under the 2015 Paris Agreement.	The Paris Agreement endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC is a bedrock of international action against man made global warming.	False
The protection of our water they figure shouldnt interfere with business.	This is a central threat to Americas future a major powerful political party rejecting science itself.	The cruelty and the idiocy of Donald Trumps presidency does not chiefly lie in his tweets or even his words.	They worship at the altar of nihilistic capitalism.	Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctity of fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people.	False
Im working alongside my addministration to formulate a plan of action to swiftly dayliver aids and support to all the suffered comuntitties.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.	Right!	Be the solution not the problem.	But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment.	False
This very negative response that weve gotten from Rover up until now and very recently is pretty uncharacteristic.	The dispute offers a cautionary tale in what one critic described as regulatory capture of a state agency by a company with deep ties to the Trump administration and a reputation as an environmental pariah unafraid to deploy scorched earth tactics against its opponents.	In the same email Arnold called the OEPA staff among if not the most honest and helpful people Ive encountered.	Theyve pointed us in the right direction so we could build the pipeline and stay within their good graces.	Theyve offered options when we were stuck.	False
We have just 59 days to do our part to save our children from an endless cycle of crop killing droughts one year and rivers spilling their banks the next Inslee tweeted in January.	Inslee who is a 2020 presidential contender is styling himself as a leader for Democrats agitating for action on global warming.	Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
It undermines America's standing in the world and threatens to damage humanity's ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	We can and we must do both.	In order to unleash the power of the American economy our government must encourage production of American energy.	President Trump acted in America's best interest moving away from a flawed agreement that placed too heavy a burden on American jobs and opening the door to a new agreement that reaches the right balance.	This damages our nation's reputation as an international leader and puts future generations at risk to the threat of climate change.	False
This is a ballot measure that commits Nevada to getting 50 percent of its energy from renewable sources by 2030.	They also play a huge role in how federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act are enforced.	Sisolak for example campaigned on his support Question 6 one of the few state clean energy ballot initiatives that passed on Tuesday.	In fact as governor I would like to get us on the road to 100 percent Sisolak said in a campaign ad.	Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U turn going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025.	False
On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term.	We managed to send one flight with World Food Programme WFP supplies of rice and biscuits and some non food items Mr Abreu told news agency AFP.	Ocha says humanitarian needs have sky rocketed and the humanitarian response will need to rapidly scale up.	It is unclear if these deaths are recorded in the government total.	But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful.	False
Some environmental organizations including the Nature Conservancy and the World Resources Institute are endorsing the plan.	He added that protection from liability would be important to Exxon which is under investigation for its past statements and actions on climate change.	The plans Republican authors include James A. Baker III and George P. Shultz both former secretaries of state and Henry M. Paulson Jr. a former secretary of the Treasury.	Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking Steven Chu a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama Michael R. Bloomberg the former New York mayor and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata.	Along with the oil companies the plans corporate backers include Johnson Johnson Unilever PepsiCo and Procter Gamble.	False
As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitts conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement however its important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting.	As I told EPA in my testimony Families are looking to EPA to solve the coal ash problem not abandon them.	One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said What are you doing?	Just two days earlier people from across the US came to Washington to testify at EPAs lone public hearing on Pruitts proposed rollbacks of protections from toxic coal ash.	Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants.	False
They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	However not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker the name of the project.	Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy.	Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation the company behind the project also argues it would be a step forward for environmentally friendly energy production.	Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines.	False
Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately.	As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case.	With the case currently tied up in appeals the plaintiffs wanted to make sure the current state of affairs with respect to climate change doesnt get worse as the wheels of justice slowly turn.	Indeed Plaintiffs by their present motion are essentially making a bid in this Court for a substitute mini trial or trial lite which is premature until the pure issues of law now being briefed in this interlocutory appeal are appropriately resolved as a threshold matter wrote attorneys for the US Department of Justice.	In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system.	False
Set aside for the moment the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours seven consecutive hours of prime time programming to the subject.	Ending oil and gas exploration and extraction on public lands.	4.	5.	Clearly CNN wanted to make a political statement about how important it thinks climate change ought to be in the election.	True
California Gov.	Hes likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt an endangered fish.	Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture.	Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year.	Jerry Brown a Democrat blamed man made global warming for the states rash of intense fires in the last couple of years however wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire prone areas.	True
That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	Minus 3 is not that far from zero Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times.	Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released.	As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost.	In order to know how much is lost you have to know how much is there Sue Natali a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times.	False
They dont want to be informed.	They dont want to do the research Zinke said.	This has to do with active forest management.	What makes Zinkes statements during his trip to California so astonishing is that they come two days after he stressed the importance of being informed and open minded.	And they dont want to expand their paradigm and look at the actual facts.	False
That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible.	It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	We had not expected to find anything like that number.	The discovery is particularly important because the activity of these volcanoes could have crucial implications for the rest of the planet.	And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned.	False
We're running out of time to act.	We can embrace the energy of activism to move our partys goals forward.	They asked me to join them and I did Ocasio Cortez tweeted of her involvement with members of the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats who visited several elected officials offices in the building.	The progressive Democratic newcomer from New York joined more than 100 environmental youth activists on Tuesday for a sit in inside House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosis Capitol Hill office to encourage a deal to transition to a 100 percent renewable energy based economy to fight climate change.	Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy.	True
The president's primary aim the directive states is promoting domestic manufacturing and job creation.	Another would permit the EPA to discount many studies used as the basis for air quality standards for a lack of transparency because those analyses use individual health datathat cant be disclosed because they're protected under federal privacy laws.	One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an expresspriority saidJohn Walke director of theNatural Resources Defense Council's clean air program.	The memo encourages reliance on air pollution modeling for deregulatory purposes or permits desired by industry but not for regulatory purposes that would better protect Americans he said.	These actions are intended to ensure that EPA carries out its core missions of protecting the environment and improving air quality in accord with statutory requirements while reducing unnecessary impediments to new manufacturing and business expansion essential for a growing economy the presidentsaid in a statement accompanying the order.	False
For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	And the guy that I saw the other day if I may take a moment was congressman Thomas Massey from Kentucky and he is an electrical engineer.	So congressman or the congressmans staff heres the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off thats been debunked.	This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem.	Its the speed.	False
I want to go beyond those issues said Del.	You have in my opinion a Commonwealth that wants to see that.	Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for.	Virginia Del.	You have members who have been in our caucus and who will be coming into our caucus that want to see that happen she added.	False
Namely that priority is climate change.	These records reveal Trumps active censorship of science in the name of his political agenda said Meg Townsend open government attorney at the Center for Biological Diversity.	To think that federal agency staff who report about the air water and soil that sustains the health of our nation must conform their reporting with the Trump administrations anti science rhetoric is appalling and dangerous for America and the greater global community.	Please visit with your staff and make them aware of this shift in perspective within the executive branch.	Some staff werent enamored with the new regime with one employee stating on an email on 5 July that we would prefer to keep the language as is and stressing the need to maintain the scientific integrity of the work.	False
Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	The yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes he said.	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said.	Agriculture ministers and diplomats from the Group of Seven G7 world power nations attended the gathering which marked FAOs World Food Day.	True
Im concerned because it affects their health.	Not just our children.	Schneider an associate professor in the geography department said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years.	The kids are affected the most.	They have problems breathing.	True
Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil.	You say you hear us and that you understand the urgency.	People are suffering.	Because these numbers are too uncomfortable.	The world is waking up.	True
The lawsuitfollows over three years of investigationfirst orchestrated by former Attorney General Eric Schneiderman who resigned in April over abuse allegations from former romantic partners.	The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides.	They also accuse energy companies of trying to downplay the harms their products allegedly cause.	The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation.RELATEDSEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy Exxon engaged in a longstanding fraudulent scheme to deceive investors analysts and underwriters concerning the companys management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulationthe lawsuit notes.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
What is being done here is an atrocity against us.	We need the forest and our children need the forest.	We feel the climate changing and the world needs the forest.	For us this is destruction.	These devastating images show an indigenous family surveying the ruins of their homeland in the Amazon rainforest.	False
Regeneration International a sustainable farming nonprofit organized the missive with the climate justice group Sunrise Movement.	Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass.	We call on Congress to put the Green in the Green New Deal Wednesdays letter reads by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this countrys middle class to make family farming economically viable again and to help reverse climate change and improve Americas air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again.	Farmers supported the Trump administrations proposal last week tofinalize the rollback of the Obama era Waters of the U.S. rule which had put new restrictions on which waterways agribusiness could pollute.	The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10000 members.	False
Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	The researchers study in Nature provided no proof oftheclaim global warming is caused by humans or that global warming will cause the severe problemsCampbell said it will in the quotes provided by the UC Merced article.	In other words more carbon dioxide which is being produced by humans at record levels has improved plant growth which in turn improves food production for humans and animals.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	However dont too excited Campbell warns.	False
The people believe them.	The Illinois based group which hasties to the fossil fuel billionaires who run Koch Industries boasted in July that the White House reached out for help identifying scientists for these debates.	The people believed them he wrote in a December 2015 blog post.	The names included on the list suggest that the Heartland Institute wants the debate to go directly after the scientific and legal underpinnings of the EPAs regulations on climate change.	Calls for the red team blue team exercise began in April one month before the date marked on the top of the documents.On April 20 the day before the March for Science protest in Washington D.C. New York University physicist Steve Koonin published an op ed in The Wall Street Journal calling for a red team blue team exercise to put the consensus to the test and improve public understanding through an open adversarial process.	True
This is important because...	Why is the difference so important?	So the basis of all previous disagreements stems from who gets access to what.	It covers areas such as the management of natural resources territorial rights and the environment.	It is an important step in the easing of regional tensions but the deal over the world's largest inland body of water matters for several reasons.	False
Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm.	Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.	Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies.	From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said.	True
In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	4 priority and voters of color in that age range ranked it No.	3.	Polling Data for Progress released in September pegged the number slightly higher at 55 percent of eligible U.S. voters but found that those opposed decreased from 23 percent to 18 percent when the guaranteed jobs are green.	And so weve been here before and we have a blueprint of doing this before.	False
Of course the purpose of studies such as these which remarkably continue to receive funding is ultimately practical rather than speculative.	They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory.	Event attributionthe ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warmingis exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst even according to true believers.	If attributing changes in migratory patterns of songbirds to global warming after a mere 12 years of observation strikes readers as highly suspicious thats probably because it is.	Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude with unusual modesty that better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming.	False
Wed like to see something that is more data driven.	The report is not without its controversies.	Its not data driven.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	He says the NCAs second volume relies on the RCP8.5 one of the four possible pathways in the trajectory.	False
Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach.	We know they are on the front lines to protect our land and groundwater from petroleum leaks such as those from gas stations and other underground storage tank facilities and we expect this partnership will continue to be a hallmark of the program.	But state officials environmental activists and public health advocates warn that the size of the cut carries great risk considering groundwater is the source of drinking water for nearly half of all Americans.	Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs but a taxpayer funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly are abandoned or when owners dont have the resources.	False
The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43 page document which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry.	They're using stall tactics to defer action ignoring the courts and the demands of the American people.	Liz Perera climate policy director for the Sierra Club said repealing the Clean Power Plan is about one thing and one thing only helping corporate polluters profit.	The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers said Hal Quinn president and CEO of the National Mining Association.	The plan was first reported by Bloomberg News.	False
growth in the nation in 2018 according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis.	Among other measures he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons.	He has been outspoken in favor of gun control and after the shooting in Parkland Fla. last year he confronted President Trump on live television denouncing Mr. Trumps suggestion to arm schoolteachers.	While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.	He then proposed a different series of actions including running the states electric utilities fully on renewable power by 2045 requiring buildings to be more energy efficient promoting electric vehicles and cutting down on hydrofluorocarbons which are used in air conditioners.	False
We need to better anticipate support requirements similar to those of people fleeing other unviable situations.	Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements.	It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.	If only theyd done their study a bit earlier they could have saved a lot of alarmists a lot of worry.	True
Gore asked.	Eskridges plight to save his island reached mainstream media attention when President Donald Trump called him after seeing a CNN report about the disappearing islands Trump supporting mayor.	Gore is currently making the rounds to publicize the sequel to his global climate documentary An Inconvenient Truth.	Recentlyhe said that the global warming fight was in the same vein as great moral causes of humanity in the past like the Civil Rights cause of the 60s and abolition.	But Im just not seeing it he said.	False
The content is provided for information purposes only.	One of the many ways people can contribute to that movement is by telling others about steps they have personally taken then when you say 'this is really urgent' your words are backed by the truth of your actions.	The bespectacled 40 year old with long blond hair does paid consulting for the United States Institute of Peace and is an adjunct professor at two Washington universities but performs the bulk of his work in the volunteer sector.	Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research no part may be reproduced without the written permission.	Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	True
I would love to understand this logic.	Right?	This is honesty sp about how Democrats would micromanage private life.	Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right?	Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	False
The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request fromthe Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama era policy known as the Clean Power Plan.	Schneiderman hired Howard Master a prosecutor who served under an Obama appointed U.S. attorney to focus on corruption cases involving the Trump administration.Masters primary responsibility according to Schneidermans office will be investigating and possibly prosecuting the Trump administration for possible civil rights abuses.	Master will be working on a wide range of civil and criminal investigations and enforcement matters including public corruption complex civil litigation Eric Soufer a spokesman for Schneiderman told WSJ.	The coalition of states argued in a statement the delay would waste the substantial resources already expended in this litigation according to a statement from the group.	Hehas engaged in a months long investigation into whether Exxon Mobilillegally hid internal climate research from the public and shareholders.	False
It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment.	The unit was stabilized.	No impact to the community has been reported the company said.	At this time while we do not believe there is any imminent danger the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire andor explosion within the site confines is real Arkema said in a statement.	In this case it caused product to spill to the ground.	False
Like this story?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	wondered one user.	Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses.	True
She said in a statement that unlike Pruitt Wheeler understands the mission of the EPA and acts in accordance with ethical standards.	I believe immediate action must be taken and these efforts lack a sense of urgency Manchin said.	Like Collins Manchin also said he was concerned at EPAs attempt to undo rules designed to limit emissions of mercury which can damage the brains of infants and young children.	During his time as acting administrator Andrew Wheeler has been seen as a thoughtful leader who understands the need for sensible environmental policies said Michelle Bloodworth the groups president and CEO.	However the policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	True
The Union of Concerned Scientists the activist group that has spearheaded this push for legal action has compared energy companies behavior with that of tobacco companies decades ago.	Some form of energy is necessary to do just about anything including to meet essential needs such as heating or cooling a home which in some places is a genuine safety issue.	First unlike smoking energy is a basic good.	We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels and yet publicly available industry funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing.	As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies alleged accountability for rising sea levels they fall into two essential categories.	True
RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	350.org an international environmental group is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video.	Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	Now we will make our voices heard.	The group strongly references the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes 2018 report which claims the world only has a few year to dramatically reduce carbon emissions or else face dire environmental consequences.	False
That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require.	This is going to be the Great Society the moon shot the civil rights movement of our generation she said.	Speakers included 350.org founder Bill McKibben The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones activist and Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinezand MayorDale Rossof deep red Georgetown Texas whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism.	Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. who has made championing a so called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday.	In the 2016 presidential election Sanders staked out the most ambitious climate platform of any candidate vowing to slash carbon dioxide pollution 40 percent by 2030 end fossil fuel subsidies and ban fracking.	True
Climate Change.'	Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.	'Our greatest threat in thousands of years.	It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'.	'There's absolutely no doubt that the Trump effect has created a sense of uncertainty in terms of the political commitment to achieve anything close to a 2C target.'	False
H. Sterling Burnett Ph.D. hburnett is a research fellow on energy and the environment at The Heartland Institute a nonpartisan nonprofit research center headquartered in Arlington Heights Illinois.	CPP and the other climate regulations imposed by the Obama administration were justified based on the EPAs determination carbon dioxide poses a threat to human health and the environment a concept known as the endangerment finding.	Relying on unsubstantiated projections produced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the EPA determined carbon dioxide emissions from cars and industry threaten human welfare.	CPP was the centerpiece of the Obama administrations effort to move the United States away from the use of fossil fuels beginning with coal to fight climate change.	In truth this presents a problem for Trump.	False
And they say their work could be relevant to places beyond our own planet that may have harsher environments than today's Earth.	But the researchers took great pains to test for contamination account for the exposure to heat and pressure and extrapolate back the original ratios Pinti said.	It adds to evidence that the Earth at that time had surface water and other conditions to support life and wasn't as hot and as inhospitable as scientists used to think said Daniele Pinti a geochemist at the University of Quebec at Montreal.	The discovery will provide insight into early life not only on Earth but also on other planets.	That makes them harder to analyze but not impossible.	True
The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it but not to welcome it as that would denote endorsement of the report the State Department said in a statement.	Countries were asked to welcome the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change which says governments around the world must take rapid far reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society to avoid disastrous levels of global warming.	American strength flows from American energy and as it turns out we have a lot of American energy.	Zinke's position involves the dual and sometimes competing roles of overseeing leases to develop resources such as oil natural gas and minerals and preserving federal lands for wildlife and human recreational uses.	The administration may be trying to lower the bar significantly for future new sources of pollution that the EPA tries to regulate said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	False
We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated.	Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels.	Wed even settle for a coherent policy to tackle it rather than make it worse Poole told Yahoo News.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	I cannot speak to that.	False
This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle.	Mr President start listening to the people and the scientists not the greed of the fossil fuel industry Sanders said at a rally on Capitol Hill where he was flanked by environmental advocates and two of his Democratic colleagues Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon who authored the bill and Ed Markey of Massachusetts.	The partisan nature of the debate was not lost on the audience as one attendee interrupted the proceedings to ask Where are the Republicans?	There is no excuse for failure.	At the rally Markey said Trumps actions were precisely why hundreds of thousands of people felt compelled to take to the streets.	False
Gov.	She says typically the agency would communicate with a state privately and work out differences to encourage a cooperative rather than adversarial relationship.	California is expected to receive about 8 billion in fiscal years 2019 and 2020.	Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court.	The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently.	True
We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air land and water our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency said JP Freire an associate administrator for public affairs.	At the marquee climate protest the Peoples Climate March in Washington tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House.	Previously the website housed data on greenhouse gas emissions from large polluters and reports on the effects of climate change and its impact on human health.	In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it.	True
'Americans want reliable energy that they can afford' he said at a news conference.	According to data from the US Energy Information Administration hydroelectric dams solar panels and wind turbines generated 68.5 million megawatt hours of energy during the month of April 2019.	In April for the first time ever the US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal in a single month.	However experts noted that several coal plants were down for routine maintenance in April and the month saw an increase in wind generation and a drop in energy demand.	Despite this areport from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis IEEFA said that the trend could potentially extend into the month of May.	True
It's an adventure.	We need to be resilient and adapt.	For the tourists it's amazing it's something to see.	But for the people who live here it's a real problem Litschauer said cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo.	The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame.	True
Literally the future of the world depends on us.	Ill tell you what I havent seen anything better that addresses the singular crisis we face a crisis that could at its worst lead to extinction he said.	Now as the former US congressman vies to be the Democratic candidate to run against Donald Trump in the 2020 race for the White House he faces much closer scrutiny on the subject.	Given Texass critical importance to the environmental and economic future of the country a Texas presidential candidate can deliver a powerful green narrative said Luke Metzger executive director of Environment Texas an advocacy group.	Environmental advocates and experts wait to see if as ORourke pivots from an election in a conservative led oil state to a national primary race heavily influenced by left leaning Democratic candidates he will have more latitude and desire to put progressive green policies at the heart of his strategy.	False
The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that.	The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally.	Together those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions including more than 40 of methane.	Scientists and economists have been studying the effects of our diets on the environment for years.	The new report adds weight and detail to a warning put out by the same panel of scientists last fall in which they sounded the alarm about the inadequacy of the pledges countries have made so far to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	False
The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real world problems.	The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection.	It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power Buzbee said.	The major questions doctrine he said is critical to limiting the ability of agencies to make major policy decisions that belong to Congress at least unless Congress clearly delegates that authority.	But the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh has them especially worried.	False
As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	And to say its not to say youre going to get rid of nuclear really you are handicapping and undermining our ability to get to the ambitious goals we must have.	Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus.	The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia Washington D.C. for anexclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world.	False
These people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this timehe added referring to the Trump administration.	To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator.	The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor.	Hurricane Irma rampaged through the Caribbean before slamming into Florida as a Category 5 beast knocking out power for millions and ultimately killing 69 people.	On Tuesday afternoon Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt who sued to halt the plan last year when he was Oklahomas attorney general released a proposal to eliminate the policy without any replacement leaving the country without a national strategy to adapt to global warming.	True
And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act.	This includes the story of Noahs Ark.Noahs story holds powerful lessons for us today.	Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this.	After all we have a surplus of evidence.	The catastrophe unfolding in Houston is yet another stark warning.People are losing their homes and their jobs.	True
Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions.	We are here today because our climate is under threat Mr. Vella said.	The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a point of no return is to be found in political will.	In a major report last week the prestigious UK journal The Lancet suggested that pollution of air and water rather than carbon induced global warming is the real crisis facing the world one being overlooked by environmental activists.	In the Popes written message to the meeting conveyed by the Vaticans Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world as well as his fervent desire that the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses.	False
It's political and it's practical.	But the practical aspect is the world demands integration and work on these things.	They need to be more thoughtful.	This really is about interaction economic development.	And they need to be inclusive.	False
I wanted to come and help.	I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	That movement work is critical to moving the needle.	Tlaib views her workwith groups like the Sunrise Movement as a natural extension of the campaigns she and her fellow progressive built.	Be hopeful.	False
Like this story?	Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State.	Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower.	The Westinghouse fuel factory turns uranium into several types of fuel for nuclear reactors.	According to the commission the hole goes six feet down into the soil below the Westinghouse factorys concrete floor.	False
The organizers said their goal was to shut down the center of decision making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy.	Ahead of the days United Nations Climate Action Summit in New York activists participated in Shut Down D.C. a coordinated act of civil disobedience designed to draw attention to the global climate crisis.	A press release from the events organizers said that Mondays protesters included labor organizations the anti war group Code Pink Black Lives Matter and the environmental justice organization Rising Tide North America.	Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal additional measures to protect indigenous peoples land and a broad push toward climate justice.	pic.twitter.comJhjVBr1hU3 Sam Sweeney September 23 2019 Mondays protests come on the heels of a worldwide climate strike on Friday a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the largest climate rally ever.	True
... Its not data driven White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday.	Its based on modeling.	Wed like to see something that is more data driven.	Its not based on facts.	One of the problems that a lot of people like myself we have very high levels of intelligence but were not necessarily such believers said Trump speaking to the Posts Josh Dawsey and Philip Rucker.	False
They can sense that we are making an impact.	None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	None 'Five Eyes' in the dark Will Trump and Barr destroy trust in U.S. intelligence?	Now what does he want?	They obviously dont want that.	False
This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible.	... We have to do it ourselves.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	And it's incomprehensible to me that there's no sense of urgency from the federal government.	The security of lower Manhattan should be a national priority.	False
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	But I don't know that it's man made.	I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	On Monday the president said that he had heard of the recent report and that hell have to take a look at it.	I don't want to lose millions and millions of jobs.	True
Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society.	In a first Washington Gov.	Though founded and run by a former utility lawyer the company as its name suggests transferred a majority stake in its ownership to a consortium of Native American tribes in 2005.	Sanders has also drawn heat recently for his uncertain stance on reparations for the descendants of slaves and for quietly hiring a journalist who frequently attacked his 2020 opponents on Twitter as an adviser.	In 2007 former Iowa Gov.	False
Meanwhile he doesnt want to sacrifice the economic well being of our country for something that nobody really knows.	Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA said Democrats should focus on the practical and the opportunistic in the short term while working toward big picture aspirational goals in the long term.	It projected that humans have until 2030 to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we want to avoid catastrophic climate change in the form of massive sea level rise increased drought permafrost melt and coral reef die offs.	Trump may believe in climate change now but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have a very big political agenda.	While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive he is now convinced that somethings changing and itll change back again according to aninterviewhe gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday.	False
Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency.	The unusual arrangement has attracted attention in Washington where Pruitt has been under increasing scrutiny for this frequent taxpayer funded travel which has included first class airline tickets.	Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	Walter Shaub who ran the U.S. Office of Government Ethics until last year rated EPAs legal justification of Pruitts living arrangements as Total Baloney.	WASHINGTON AP An agency ethics official at the Environmental Protection Agency says Administrator Scott Pruitts lease of a Capitol Hill condo tied to a prominent fossil fuels lobbyist didnt violate federal ethics rules.	False
they all ask.	We are hungry Were tired and weak Our babies are sick the plants and animals complain.	It also includes a Message for Adults Acid rain is a problem that affects us all The message to spread however is that we can all make a difference and help reduce the presence of acid rain.	What is doing this to us?	asks Frannie Frog.	True
So anyone who cares about extinctions and biodiversity needs to care about the future of coral reefs.	This team of researchers advocates rat eradication projects on islands throughout the world.	The reefs and their abundance of marine life provide livelihoods for millions of people around the world so the decline in coral reefs is poised to become a humanitarian crisis.	By killing seabirds this study revealed rats disrupt a healthy ecosystem that depends on the seabird droppings which fertilise the reefs surrounding the island.	He and his team were able to track the source of those nutrients back to the fish that seabirds fed on by analysing algae and sponges growing on the reef.	False
They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land?	Many fruit trees including peaches have a peculiar requirement.	The wild trees represent an irreplaceable storehouse of coffee's original genetic diversity.	Nothing says Iowa quite like fields of corn.	True
We're not looking to have our light bills cheaper we're looking to stay here said Deborah Pruitt 57 who works at the island's museum where printouts of news reports about the island are displayed on a wall.	I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said.	Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler.	Often they say people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to.	At a dinner attended by island residents Aug. 2 the activists from RepublicEn headed by former Republican Congressman Bob Inglis laid out the stakes The sea level is rising and some scientists estimate that within decades the island already suffering severe erosion will need to be abandoned.	False
By deporting hundreds of thousands of Central Americans from the United States the administration like the Obama administration before it is bolstering gang recruitment in countries like El Salvador according to a December report from the International Crisis Group.	Under those conditions more than 1 billion people globally could be forced to flee their homes by 2050 and2 billion by 2100.	The president attempted to cut funding forUnited States Agency for International Development by 33 percent this year though bipartisan support for the federal governments dedicated aid agency staved off the proposal.	A quasi fascist policy of fear mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trumps response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos said Ashley Dawson author ofExtreme Cities The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change.	Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress.	True
But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups.	But it also lays the groundwork for new presumably weaker regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement.	This fudge isnt perfect and it still doesnt solve the problem of the EPAs Obama era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless life enhancing trace gas as an existential threat.	This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord.	It certainly will draw the process out she said.	False
University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	Brown is right in one sense.	California Democratic Gov.	California does have miles to go to meet Browns executive order because it relies on magical thinking and science fiction according to experts.	True
It demonstrates the agency's dedication to advancing President Trump's agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty he said.	They recognized us as the pre eminent organization opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote.	Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a non profit promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	It's not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing.	If you send a list we will make sure an invitation is sent Konkus wrote to then Heartland president Joseph Bast in May 2017 seeking suggestions on scientists and economists the EPA could invite to an annual EPA public hearing on the agency's science standards.	True
When do we want it?	Climate Justice.	We are here to hold cowardice sic politicians accountable who have caused this damage by turning their heads in fear.	The youths held signs that read Greed Kills Help My Home is on Fire and 527 Years of Indigenous Resistance and chanted in between speeches phrases such as What do we want?	The speaker listed the groups demands which will be presented at the U.N. summit A just and livable world where fossil fuels are left out of every decision around the world 100 percent renewable energy around the globe and holding polluters accountable for causing the climate crisis.	False
Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health.	Hes calculating.	Other analysts shared similar sentiments.	Ocasio Cortezs office provided NPR the GND resolution and its accompanying FAQ document that laid out its goals namely to move America to 100 clean and renewable energy within 10 years.	It also stated that the GND would provide benefits for people unwilling to work.	True
As the CEO of one of Americas historically coal dependent utilities Tom Fanning of the Southern Company says You cant keep waves off the beach.King Canute knew this.	The world rightfully worries when they hear Donald Trump proclaim he is going to bring back coal and watch the administration and the Republican Congress try to roll back such common sense requirements limits on the wasteful flaring and leaking of methane from oil and gas fields.	The Mars Candy Company recently committed a billion dollars to ensure that its operations and supply chain would reduce their climate impact by 67 percent by 2050.	Lets begin with bringing back coal.	The American political conversation about climate is indeed scary and depressing.	True
We can rebuild communities in rural America that have been devastated.	We can create millions of good paying jobs.	But I think they need more time to state the case.	I have a plan for a green industrial policy that takes advantage of the fact that we do what we do best and that is innovate and create.	Montana Gov.	False
Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed.	Though not surprising this is extremely troubling.	In the late 90s Koch Industries invested in an aerospace company Pompeo founded with fellow West Point alumni.	Tiernan Sittenfeld senior vice president of government affairs for the League of Conservation Voters said in a statement that Pompeos nomination is profoundly disturbing but not unexpected.	Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community she said.	False
I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result.	Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California.	Some people say 2035 some people say 2040 she said.	For example California could use vehicle registration rules or control the vehicles that can access state highways she said.	False
But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	In June 2017 villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant they alleged that more than 200000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250000 solar modules daily.	Utility scale solar farms massive projects that supply power to the gird such as the one in Ramanathapuram need to be re evaluated especially if they are to run in areas where water is scarce.	The overall direction if not the magnitude and rate of change laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally.	There are other challenges too.	True
Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world.	Senator Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel said Once again President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain.	Local action by itself is not likely to be enough.	Nate Hultman director of the University of Marylands center for global sustainability and lead author of this years Americas Pledge report pointed to new laws in New Mexico Nevada Washington Maine New York Washington DC and Puerto Rico for 100 clean energy targets.	Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product.	False
Whoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went onto the streets will need to deliver now said Sven Giegold a leading candidate for the German Green party that scooped up more than 20 of the vote nationwide an increase of almost 10 compared with 2014.	I think people realize that there are issues you cant solve at the national level he said.	Giegold the German Greens lead candidate said voters expect the party to deliver on its environmental pledges not secure powerful posts in the executive European Commission.	People didnt take to the streets to elect or kick out a party but for these problems to be solved.	The French sent us a very clear message they want environment to be at the heart of our lives at the heart of the political game and that message has been spread across Europe he said.	False
In its research SPARK Neuro measured physiological data such as brain activity and palm sweat to quantify peoples emotional reactions to stimuli.	Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles!	The expression climate crisis for instance got a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners than climate change the study found.	Last April a team of advertising consultants from SPARK Neuro released the results of astudysuggesting that worn out expressions such as climate change do not frighten people enough whereas stronger vocabulary such as climate crisis and environmental collapse produced a significantly stronger emotional response.	True
Global Change Research Program.	Here are some key points.	It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	But there are other less obvious risks.	It's well over 1000 pages and touches on a daunting range of topics.	False
But he added Measuring with precision from my perspective the degree of human contribution is very challenging.	We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that.	The United States has a seat at the table.	If nations around the globe want to seek to learn from us on what were doing to reduce our CO2 footprint were going to share that with them and thats something that should occur and will occur in the future.	Thats where our focus has been the last several weeks.	True
In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company.	We cant know whether Happer genuinely believes the nonsense hes spouting or is just being paid well enough to sound like he does.	For all their bluster and junk science Republican decision makers have a clear sense for their own self interest and just how much is at stake for them and the rest of the 1.	As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	As the New York Times reported in its article on the White Houses new climate plans both Happer and John Bolton who tapped him for the administration have received generous support from the Mercers the rightwing family credited with both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic.	False
The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed.	But the report said the efficacy of measures such as planting forests bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2 were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks.	The summary said renewable energy would need to supply 70 to 85 percent of electricity by 2050 to stay within a 1.5C limit compared with about 25 percent now.	False
The BBC's Rajini Vaidyanathan in Washington says the move will be welcomed by many Trump supporters as for them this is less about science and more about sending a signal to so called global elites.	A United Nations spokeswoman said it was a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security.	In many ways it is far worse than many had expected.	Small island nations whose existence is threatened by rising sea levels were critical of the move.	He sees it as a clear job killer as an economy strangler and a desperately unfair stitch up by other countries wanting to take economic advantage of the US.	False
Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact.	Share your thoughts below!	Throughout much of the 2016 campaign then candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the Americanpeople.	This is religion for the political left and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior a top White House official told Axios who added that snarky comments from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw.	The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios.	False
Mother Nature has been teasing mankind with this for a long time saying 'this is here'.	It is a high risk project but also one which may have a very high reward at the end said Orheim.	For Wolfgang Foerg the chief executive of Swiss company Water Vision which has teamed up with Sloane the project has huge potential in the face of ever more frequent drought.	The project is crazy no question said Olav Orheim a Norwegian glaciologist with four decades of experience who is working on a similar project for Saudi Arabia.	Thousands break off every year.	False
The NIE regularly updates Koreans about the state of nature in the DMZ through videos it posts on its social media accounts.	Previous data has been collected starting in 1974.	The data collected in the DMZ took place from 2014 to 2017.	Other areas could be designated for economic cooperation and travel.	The region should be classified according to value such as key areas with high preservation value and buffer areas.	True
While no decision has been made experts tracking it say that view is gaining traction.	That reflects the views of powerful conservative political advocacy groups such as Americans for Prosperity which is funded by the influential libertarian brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch.	Its primary policy for meeting that target would be the Clean Power Plan a set of Environmental Protection Agency regulations designed to shutter hundreds of heavily polluting coal fired power plants the nations chief source of greenhouse emissions.	Mr. Cramer an early supporter of Donald J. Trump advised Mr. Trump on energy issues during his presidential campaign.	That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals.	True
We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible.	This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	Herzog calls most of these extraction ideas more of a hope than a reality.	But research shows that the amount of land needed for that would be formidable.	Their new report lays out the difficulty in stark detail it would require a 40 50 percent reduction in emissions by 2030 global emissions are currently rising.	False
But Maria Neira the head of the WHO's public health department said the real solution to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it.	Pregnant women are among the most avid customers of the Russian made product with some saying they are following their doctor's orders.	They are just funding businesses without any positive results.	The NGO says the government should give some 200000 ger residents access to loans so that they install heating insulation and replace their stoves with cleaner heaters.	The non profit group Smog and Kids donated a South Korean made air ventilation system to a kindergarten in one of the capital's most polluted areas and the difference in air quality inside and outside the classrooms is palpable.	False
The resolution proposes providing all people of the United States with i high quality health care ii affordable safe and adequate housing iii economic security and iv access to clean water clean air healthy and affordable food and nature.	Workers are often paid far less than the value they create.	It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty.	The resolution co sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020 has been heavily criticized by those on the right.	Earlier this week Ivanka Trump a senior White House adviser and the President's daughter was asked about the Green New Deal proposal and what she would say to people who are enticed by the proposal's job guarantee.	False
But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	Other celebrities like Julia Roberts are also eco hypocrites.	In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.	Celebrities often claim to be concerned about the environment usually without changing their lavish lifestyles or pollution.	More than 45 celebrities took part in the fundraiser which brought in more than 44 million.	False
Our health hangs in the balance too.	Read Maryn McKennas New York Times story for more on this.	Its not just the future of the environment thats at stake here.	These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health.	In addition deforestation and urbanization are moving humans into areas where they havent lived before and putting them into closer contact with animals that carry disease causing microbes like bats during West Africas 2014 Ebola outbreak.	False
Education Establish universal pre K education.	Social issues Abortion should remain legal after 20 weeks.	Work with businesses.	Reconstitute U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE.	Provide two free years of higher education.	True
All of this is to be pursued through jointly held symposia seminars workshops study tours collaborative research and development projects exchanges and training programs and other forms of cooperation that strengthen the bonds between UNEP and the U.S.	As the Trump White House continues its cleanup of the mess foreign and domestic left behind by the Obama administration it should toss out a little noticed document that entangles the U.S. in some of the worst schemes ever cooked up by U.N. bureaucrats and their cronies in the global environmental movement.	The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans.	For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False
Recall the false promises about corn and cellulosic ethanol The Wall Street Journal editorial board wrote of the study.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Over the long term hydrogen methane technology offers a further advantage it allows surplus wind and solar power generated during peaks to be stored and these surpluses will see a sharp increase as the share of this renewable energy grows study co author Christoph Buchal professor of physics at the University of Cologne said in a statement.	Its better read as a warning that new technologies arent a climate change panacea.	True
This technology is worth billions of dollars a year.	Petermann said another red flag is wildfires.	Those studies have not been done and that is one of the major points in the comments.	She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead and one that happened in Chile in January.	They USDA are really taking their time with it becuase they know there is overwhelming public opposition to the plan Petermann told RT.	False
Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Washington Gov.	However it remains to be seen if there is an audience with a seven hour attention span for a single issue.	Here is the format The audience will be composed of selected Democrats independents and stakeholders.	It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates like what executive orders they would sign how high climate change ranks as a priority and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy.	True
So whats the point of attacking environmentalists?	In California for example humanscaused95 percent of all wildfires with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem.	Most wildfires are caused by humans mostly unintentionally.	Randi Spivak public lands program director at the Center for Biological Diversity said the administration is missing the main issue by being dismissive of climate changes effect on the fires.	Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke spent the last week targeting environmental groups that have for years opposed activities like logging and thinning to reduce the risks of catastrophic wildfires on federal lands.	True
The purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected EPA wont second guess it Stan Meiburg a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency told HuffPost by phone.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	That directive is likely to prompt watchdog groups to sue.	The orderinstructs the EPA to consider what countries that dont border the United States are doing to reduce pollution allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India.	In what could be the most controversial part the order requires the EPAs science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rulessomething for which industry groups have clamored for years.	False
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	In this new wave of ethical investing the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record.	The moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy said Toms Insua the director of the Movement.	I hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit because while this decision makes smart financial sense acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative she said.	Their leadership is launching a path that the World Bank and its financial organs should follow.	False
This fee structure ignores human nature which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught.	They were hoping no one would question it.	After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site state Representative Gerry Pollet who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest called their actions outrageous.	They are here for the money and thats it Carpenter told KING.	The workers are employed by Washington River Protection Solutions WRPS the organization responsible for cleaning approximately 53 million gallons of high level radioactive and chemical waste stored in the containers at Hanford.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post.	That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims.	Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100000 Americans every year the AP reports and Trumps own EPA shows not only worse air pollution but a significant increase in the two worst categories very unhealthy and hazardous conditions.	His lies dont make it cleaner and his policies are on track to make it worse.	False
This is critically important for two main reasons.	But public health researchers are aware of the limits of the data available and use matching statistical controls and other standard techniques to try to get a clearer picture of whats going on.	Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it.	In other words you cant get a group of volunteers together and then randomly assign half of them to have the air they breathe be deliberately poisoned just to see how bad the poison is.	Tony Cox an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPAs Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee argues that the EPAs agencys current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor.	False
We know we arent in the business of risking anyones safety.	The Peoples Climate March which was supported by hundreds of thousands across the country and tens of thousands in Washington was sponsored by environmental groups labor unions and social justice groups.	This weekends protests come one week after last weeks March for Science.	Video showed thousands marching in the streets of Washington where former Vice President Al Gore Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Virgin Atlantic owner Richard Branson showed up to protest as well.	Sometimes Mother Nature throws you a curveball!	False
Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming.	Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health but opponents say its a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking.	There is a wave of energy related ballot initiatives for voters to weigh in on this election year.	Florida To Decide On Offshore Drilling And Vaping?	Bill Ritter.	False
And as I pointed out last month in this feature story hes also overseen a drastic slowdown in the day to day work of the agency.	But one of EPAs most important jobs is to enforce civil penalties for companies that breach limits for hazardous chemicals like sulfur dioxide and hydrochloric acid.	Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows.	In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama era environmental regulations as possible.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	True
'It is what the public wants it makes economic sense and it is what the world needs in order to safeguard the lives of future generations.'	'I think we can work more effectively in making sure that every pound that goes in to the fund is achieving what it is meant to do.'	It's a dereliction of both her duty to this country and our duty to our planet.'	Asked whether the UK could contribute more she told the Daily Mail 'It is not always about money it is about ways of working and how to achieve effective outcomes.	She stressed the importance of the fund in heading off wider humanitarian crises such as droughts and floods and said leaders should focus on cutting waste from the programme rather than pumping in more cash immediately.	False
Gov.	Pete Wilson.	He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan fuel economy standards for carsoffshore drilling restrictions and solar tax credits.	More recently Brown helped found the United States Climate Alliance a group of state and local governments pledging to abide by the Paris climate agreement even after the federal government withdraws.	He fired scientists from government advisory positions.	False
Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'	Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'	The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist.	An image of her stare at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme.	Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'	True
Some scientists maintain people like Nye are the ones cherry picking data.	Happer a science adviser to President Donald Trump made public his skeptical views on climate change in January.	Nye who is well known for hosting a childrens TV show in the 1990s scolded CNNs New Day Saturday panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicistWilliam Happer.	He also suggested the 24 news channel should instead drown out people like Happer with 98 scientists who believe in man made global warming.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
Its release hinges on the Trump administrations approval and one scientist who worked on the report told the Times that he and others feared the president would withhold it.	The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance.	The question should be you know just how much and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?	Is man having an effect on it?	In a post to Twitter Gavin Schmidt a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be shocking to those that think climate change is just a future problem.	False
'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement.	In a letter written on Friday the Interior Department announced the shutdown of the study which was started in 2016 under former President Barack Obama while the department undergoes an agency wide budgetary review.	The Trump administration has halted a study looking at the health risks of mountaintop removal coal mining.	True
It is hard to imagine a more important priority.	Let us ask them.	We have no luxury to indulge selfish ignorant behaviors.	There must be a new approach to public policy development that makes Earth First.	Property economy and jobs must serve Earth First.	True
Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide.	The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming.	We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits.	Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists.	True
It's that natural infrastructure that we're trying to avoid being lost.	We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	Personally I buy recycled toilet paper because we can and it's good for the Earth said Andrew Musgrave director of Catholic Social Action at the Archdiocese of Cincinnati and one of the 150 signatories to the letter sent to PG.	a PG spokeswoman asked CBS MoneyWatch who also pointed to Charmin as a superior product.	It's just unacceptable that a company like PG is making toilet paper a product that is used for seconds and flushed from virgin pulp said Shelley Vinyard boreal corporate campaign manager for the Natural Resources Defense Council and one of several dozen protesters at PG's annual shareholders meeting in Cincinnati Ohio on Tuesday.	False
There are factors and factors and factors.	This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	Whether new opportunities come from digging up coal or harnessing the wind for job seekers in Wyoming that detail may be of secondary importance.	And that's really what we have here says economist Robert Godby director of the Center for Energy Economics and Public Policy at the University of Wyoming.	Beggar says the Trump administration has shown a willingness to cut red tape and move things along more quickly.	True
Two judges concluded the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration and indeed that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule.	Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions.	The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation.	This includes a two year delay on a certain regulations aimed at minimizing chemical accidents.	True
This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	In the lawsuit 21 activists ages 11 to 22 said federal officials violated their rights to due process under the U.S. Constitution by failing to adequately address carbon pollution such as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels.	This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers.	Circuit Court of Appeals.	Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	False
Related Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect The very basis of all of the bills that are in here is to put people above government Utah Rep.	Rob Bishop the top Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee said on the House floor before the vote.	LWCF has protected some of our most treasured natural resources while creating jobs supporting local economies and providing countless opportunitiesfor recreation she said on the House floor.	If indeed we're going to have public lands there should be access to those lands.	Rep. Debbie Dingell D Mich praised the program for its universal benefits saying the conservation fund has steered 3.9 billion to some 40000 projects in every county across this country since it began in the 1960s.	False
Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people.	The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association.	The agency says in planning documents that companies should take steps to protect the environmental and cultural landscape of the area including limiting the use of artificial light at drilling sites and protecting useable groundwater aquifers from drilling.	They argue these lands are abandoned but theyre not we use them in our prayers we visit them.	You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging.	False
The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	Roy Moore hes part of that culture Michael Hansen executive director of the Birmingham based environmental group Gasp and a former candidate in the Democratic primary for Senate told HuffPost.	But it appears that Obama and his liberal administration are not really interested in what the Constitution or the scientific community have to say when it interferes with their radical agenda.	This is a demographic Moore who attends the Gallant First Baptist Church near his home seems likely to tap.	That year the National Association of Evangelicals proposed adopting a new platform called For the Health of a Nation.	True
Regardless of why you're doing it what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you.	The idea is when dollars are spent to rebuild you don't just want to rebuild the same old way you want to rebuild in a way that is smarter and makes it less likely that they will be effected the same way in the future storms that's resiliency former HUD Secretary Julian Castro who awarded the grant at the time told CNN.	Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN.	We could tie this to climate change or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money.	And I think it's important that as we come together as a country we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response that we are adapting properly.	False
Take Trumps nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt.	And while theres an element of truth to that it misses the big picture.	More nuanced pundits and politicians acknowledge that the science is real but argue that even if it is accurate the consequences might not be so bad or that action would simply be too costly.	Which makes it the crucial context for Trumps move Thursday.	This is the consensus that the vast majority of the Republican Party from donors to politicians to intellectuals to voters has arrived at.	False
The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy.	How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?	But he doesnt care because in his mind its real.	How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy.	Its exactly what we did to face the Nazi threat the existential threat to Western democracies in 1941 he said.	True
The federally mandated study was supposed to come out in December but was released by the Trump administration on Friday at a time when many Americans are on a long holiday weekend distracted by family and shopping.	We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered but believed and acted upon.	Coming from the US Global Change Research Program a team of 13 federal agencies the Fourth National Climate Assessment was put together with the help of 1000 people including 300 leading scientists roughly half from outside the government.	In Houston communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause.	However it suggests that if the United States immediately reduced its fossil fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions it could save thousands of lives and generate billions of dollars in benefits for the country.	False
Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	We dont go into policy but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that.	There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion Blunden told Yahoo News.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	It basically diagnoses what is happening in the climate system Arndt said on a conference call.	False
People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant because it helps put up a wall of protections around those communitiesaddingI think its just now starting to gather steam.	The proposal also requires an extra level of scrutiny for White House executive actions on low income communities and people of color and feedback from those affected communities.	Harris is not the only presidential candidate who has come out with a plan focused on environmental justice.Jay Inslee released the fifth plank of his climate change package on Monday that refocuses the White House Council of Environmental Quality as a new clearinghouse for environmental justice and has its own scoring mechanism for impacts.	Mustafa Ali the former head of the EPA environmental justice office noted that the idea of scoring environmental justice impacts is something advocates have pushed for years.	False
Right?	Interior Department spokesman Nicholas Goodwin said in a statement that the government needed to make sure the project was safe and environmentally responsible.	Spewing.	Fish and Wildlife Service many more are killed by flying into buildings or by domestic cats.	Ive studied it better than anybody.	False
Theres been incredible work going into that bill Courtney said.	Democratic Gov.	Kate Brown nonetheless last week sent state police to find the lawmakers and instituted a 500 per day fine per person for each day they werent present at a legislative session.	On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes.	Its a long thorough piece of legislation that mandates carbon emission reductions across the states economy while accounting for job quality standards and economic equity.	True
On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	This is the war we are facing.	It is an international crisis.	Maybe I am not affirming it these NGOs are carrying out some criminal actions to draw attention against me against the government of Brazil.	These countries that send money here they dont send it out of charity he said.They send it with the aim of interfering with our sovereignty.	True
Instead of focusing on the apprehensionand divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters its more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together tohelp one another.	In a hyper political environment pro climate change and anti climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters and the implementation ofstandardized response to these crises.	While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies its more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric whichonly serves to encourage people throughanxiety and panic.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season as well asthe most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria which was said to cripple Dominica with widespread devastation en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States its important to maintainlevelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speakingtruth amidstapprehension.	He added that the study is based on concrete mainstream science and cited reports from The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and NOAA to corroborate hisanalysis.	True
It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people he said.	He alleges that European interest in the welfare of the Amazon is a thin guise for attempts to gain a foothold in the region.	He wrote Do not humiliate the guy ha ha.	Asked by international journalists about environmental protection of the Amazon at a press briefing on 6 July he said Brazil is like a virgin that every pervert from the outside lusts for.	Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster.	True
A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country.	Yet despite the new found sense of urgency some are skeptical that the involvement of the military would really be able to do much.	It was clear though that deploying the military was also in part a public relations ploy.	Protecting the rain forest is our duty he said.	And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	False
Employees wanting medical or religious exceptions can hash those out witha company policy team.	WeWork is perhaps the most well known company to emerge offering co working spaces to freelancers small businesses and even employees of large companies such as Microsoft.	If WeWork employees want a burger while on business the money is coming out of their own pockets.	More As co working grows up niche spaces take center stage WeWork boasts 6000 employees worldwide according to Bloomberg.	The companyestimates its no meat policy will save15507103 animals by 2023 according to Business Insider along with16.6 billion gallons of water and445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide theheat trapping gas that alters Earth's climate.	True
The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	The lawsuit said that companies also violated the states Environmental Rights Act by polluting and destroying natural resources in Rhode Island.	The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products.	The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally.	True
On a broader note Im confused.	But making sense isnt a tenant of the climate religion.	It was because the infrastructure is falling apart.	No not really.	In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement.	False
This report is striking for two reasons.	Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action.	That view was echoed by Abigail Dillen president of environmental group Earthjustice.	And secondly it majors on the economic impact in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation.	Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today the 4th National Climate Assessment says.	False
Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	We need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air he said.	Theyre often communities of color.	We know that this climate crisis is going to affect all Americans and all folks around the world but we also know that its going to hit some people particularly hard people that are the first people to get affected he said.	You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities.	True
Coal ash in particular has long been a hot button issue in the utility industry.	Children are particularly at risk of learning disabilities birth defects asthma and cancer with 1.54 million living near such storage sites according to EPA data cited by the Sierra Club.	Rather the agency justified its move by noting it is expected to save the utility sector between 31 and 100 million annually.	This is the second biggest toxic pollution threat in our country and we need to clean it up not make things easier for polluters Earthjustice attorney Lisa Evans said in a statement.	They face contaminated drinking water toxic dust in the air and serious health threats just because the EPA is choosing to side with polluters over the public.	False
And the fact of the matter is that what we talk about is what are we going to do about those corporations?	What have we done?	One woman associated with the environmental group 350 New Hampshire Action Rebecca Beaulieu asked Biden how voters can trust him if he continues to associate himself with fossil fuel executives.	Im also like actively doing something to try to combat this climate crisis as it stands.	Kiddo I want you to just take a look.	False
Where this proposal could make a difference is in extending the lives of existing plants Duffy explained.	Its a no standard standard.	No harm no foul.	Even as nations are gathering in Poland this week to discuss how to implement the Paris climate agreement the US delegation plans to host a panel touting the virtues of fossil fuels the biggest sources of greenhouse gas emissions that drive climate change.	But with a 1.8 billion price tag it was the most expensive project in Arkansas history.	False
Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	The New Deal.	And I think for younger people looking at this are more like how are we saying lets take it easy when 3000 Americans died last year how are we saying lets take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system?	Thats the line activists and many politicians have taken up in the months since the IPCCs report.	And what preceded World War II?	False
They are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who dont want to follow the rules said Aaron Colangelo the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council.	They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law.	Over and over again the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well being of everyday Americans said Eric Schneiderman New Yorks attorney general.	Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court.	It was aimed not at sooty power plants or emissions intensive trucks but dentists.	False
As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	We do better when we have a project he said of his proposal at the Seattle event.	This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	Nevertheless some audience members were impressed by Buttigiegs vision of a green America.	The presidential candidate was running more than 45 minutes late and was just beginning to lose his audienceIm starting not to love Pete so much someone remarkedwhen he took the stage.	True
Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D R.I. brought out some visual aids to question Wheeler further about his relationship with Murray including a poster sized printout of a photo leaked from a March 2017 meeting between Murray and Energy Secretary Rick Perry where the coal executive provided a detailed wish list of policies to the administration.	Those increases are expected to cause up to1400 premature deathsper year by 2030.	This is a fudged statistic however.	In October the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change.	2 job Wheeler said he believed that man has an impact on the climate but whats not completely understood is what the impact is.	False
I'm focused now on implementing the policy priorities of the Trump administration and Secretary Bernhardt within the authorities and mission given this agency by Congress.	The source illegal immigrants.	Violent crimeincluding dangerous gangs over crowded schools the appearance of diseases once vanquished from the western world escalating hospital costs and an overwhelming demand for government services!	As someone in the public arena for nearly four decades I've given countless statements and written scores of articles on a wide variety of topics.	They're preaching fear.	False
For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.	They make bicycle travel easier and more efficient and they provide an option for people who want to ride a bicycle but might not otherwise do so because of physical fitness age disability or convenience especially at high altitudes or in hilly or strenuous terrain saidNational Park ServiceDeputy Director P. Daniel Smith.	The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many.	that provides propulsion assistance.	Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes.	True
In doing so they reveal their own selective adherence to scientific reason.	These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry.	The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work.	Such biased narratives have bedeviled the Dakota Access Pipeline from the beginning.	Jillian Kay Melchior is a fellow at the Independent Womens Forum.	False
WRIs desire to maintain access to Chinese officials may influence its political activities in the United States Republican Reps.	Given WRIs close ties to the Chinese government its emphasis on cultivating contacts with various U.S. officials is particularly disconcerting in light of the government partnerships and environmental initiatives involving WRI during the Obama Administration they wrote.	WRI leadership regularly interacts with senior Chinese government and Communist party officials and provides public support for Chinese environmental programs Bishop and Westerman wrote.While WRI criticizes policies of the U.S. government WRI is silent on Chinese human rights violations such as arrests of environmental protesters and the mass detention of ethnic minorities.	Lawmakers want to know if WRIs desire to maintain good relations with the Chinese is affecting the groups U.S. operations and advocacy effectively making it a foreign agent of the communist government.	WRI describes itself as a nonprofit global research organization that operates in more than 60 countries including China.	False
It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	We are in the middle of a clean energy revolution that no single person or group can stop.	Gore called the conversation he had with Trump at the time extremely interesting.	Civic leaders mayors governors CEOs investors and the majority of the business community will take up this challenge Gore said.	But make no mistake if President Trump wont lead the American people will.	False
Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings.	Cooper also asked agencies to promote climate adaptation and green energy use including wind and solar.	North Carolina Democratic Gov.	With historic storms lashing our state we must combat climate change make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters.	RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed.	True
There is enough data to take action.	In the late 1990sa crusading attorneysued E.I.	There is not enough urgency by Acting Administrator Wheeler and he is putting the health of millions of Americans at risk.	du Pont de Nemours and Co. over a massive contamination in Parkersburg West Virginia that killed livestock and sickened and deformed many residents in the rural Appalachian community that surrounded the chemical companys plant.	EPA needs to release strict drinking water standards and not just do a plan or do more research said Judith Enck a former regional EPA administrator who began dealing with a PFAS crisis in upstate New York in 2014.	False
We face a direct existential threat.	I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit.	Humans must limit global warming to about 1.5 degrees Celsius forecast from u n on global climate change above preindustrial temperatures in order to avoid the most catastrophic impacts of climate change.	Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting.	It's a glimmer of hope in a sea of otherwise dire news.	False
All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems.	The warning will come from the awkwardly named IPBES the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans.	About 3.2 billion people worldwide are suffering from degraded soils said IPBES chairman Prof Sir Bob Watson.	That's almost half of the world population.	False
What we are focusing on right now is taking care of the folks who survived this disaster who need our immediate help he said.	To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm Duke responded I you know the data I don't know what it particularly indicates.	Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN.	And I think it's important that as we come together as a country we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response that we are adapting properly.	False
The article detailed aU.N.	Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment.	But short term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following An Inconvenient Truth a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore.	That claim came from an international team of specialists cited by The New York Times in 1978.	CEI's report came just before the U.N.	False
Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that.	We have to connect people to where that little bit of extra money is actually going.	At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	In September's edition of Vogue edited by Meghan the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature saying We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us and only us.	The duke said that what is important is what we do to balance out negative effects.	False
We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday.	They are trying to inflate the cost and lower the benefits in order to justify rules that simply don't make sense under the law.	At a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing last week about the direction of the EPA former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy who finalized the Clean Power Plan under Obama said she believes the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule as well as other proposed rules the agency has made since Trump took office undermines the science and the law in how they're trying to roll back those rules.	Instead the administration says the plan rule instead empowers states promotes energy independence and facilitates economic growth and job creation the release stated.	Former President Barack Obama's plan if implemented would have prevented 3600 premature deaths a year 1700 heart attacks and 90000 asthma attacks according to analysis conducted by the EPA under his tenure.	False
We wanted to make it so it could be an executable idea.	It was really getting at making it specific and workable.	The Democratic Party needs an answer for what their plan is to match the U.N.s recommendations in the IPCC report on climate said Waleed Shahid the communications director for Justice Democrats a left wing group that played a leading role in Ocasio Cortezs winning primary campaign.	It was more specificities Pocan said.	Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	False
A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	It will make clear who is just using it as a buzzword and who is taking it seriously.	Oregon Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley who's mulling a presidential bid said the issue should be an integral part of his party's agenda going forward.	The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates.	The core objectives are some things such as let's drive a fast transition from fossil fuel carbon transmission creating energy sources to renewable energy so that we save our planet.	False
What Im tired of is us worrying more about the future of fossil fuels than worry about the future of fossil fuel workers.	Weve now seen the whites of its eyes.	Heather McGhee senior fellow at the progressive think tank Demos A decade of disputation is followed now by this incredible uptick of Republicans looking around for solutions former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. whose support for climate action led to his ouster in a primary challenge in 2010 said at the event where he was the lone Republican.	On Wednesday conservatives leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans Stalinism or genocide.	That same week Rep. Matt Gaetz R Fla. a loyal Trump ally drafted a nonbinding resolution staking out a Green Real Deal that would acknowledge the threat climate change poses to human health and safety in communities across the United States.	False
The NWS outpost in Omaha Nebraska demonstrated just how hot vehicles can get in heat waves by cooking American biscuits on a dash.	Kinks can form on train rails when the metal expands.	Experts told Fox 26 News more than 2100 trains have been derailed in the last 40 years because of these heat warps.	In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017.	In cities that means millions of units including those on cars and buses and trains constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere.	False
CNN gathered input from advocacy groups former government officials and academics.	This is a worldwide issue and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India.	5.	It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change.	8.	False
Its a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU.	Its a fundamental threat to progress against climate change and thus the entirety of the human race.	Its especially important that wealthy countries take the lead on the issue.	But the stakes are even bigger than they appear at first glance Its not just the survival of Western democracy thats at stake but the planet itself.	All of this goes to underscore an important and poorly understood point The wave of right wing populism sweeping the world is not only dangerous for the countries who succumb to it or even to immigrants wishing to move to those nations.	False
The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	But there was one glaring problem The 1970s cover was a hoax.	The hoax seems to have had its intended effect on Trump who according to Politico quickly got lathered up about the media's hypocrisy.	One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers.	Perhaps not surprisingly his staff seems to share these views.	False
Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	So what would a 10 foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida?	What they found was Mar a Lago was already in serious trouble.	But in January the agency put out new extreme sea level projections its doomsday scenario in other words.	False
The former secretary for Housing and Urban Development and mayor of San Antonio drew on his experience working with families who had lost their homes to flooding and called for subsidizing the National Flood Insurance Program.	An activist from the Sunrise Movement a liberal environmental group asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking.	He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying Thats the environmental injustice of racism that were dealing with.	Shes right.	Jay Inslee of Washington the self professed climate candidate whose six part plan has been adopted by several other candidates since he dropped out of the race last month.	False
Mr. Trump believes that because he doesnt get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them.	It seems our attempt failed.	Trump goes after negative press covfefe in botched midnight tweet Duck!	Thats not how it works.	Bush in the early 90s.	False
We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added.	While many around the world are talking about reducing greenhouse gases the U.S. continues to deliver and todays report is further evidence of our action oriented approach he added.	Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday.	However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong.	These achievements flow largely from technological breakthroughs in the private sector not the heavy hand of government.	False
The declarations signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day.	Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation.	Late last month a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a European Climate Declaration to the Secretary General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change.	Climate science should be less political while climate policies should be more scientific the declaration stated.	Therefore there is no cause for panic and alarm they noted.	True
It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal.	Now the public has an opportunity to weigh in as EPA is required to accept public comment on the proposed repeal and a discussion paper on a replacement Rhea Suh president of the Natural Resources Defense Council said in a statement Monday.	And Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club said Trump and Pruitt are launching one of the most egregious attacks on public health and climate safety.	first reported on the repeal proposal.	first reported on the repeal proposal.	False
Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity.	She can be very confusing.	Climate is your closet wardrobe.	I thought this was fake but its from Ocasio Cortezs Instagram story tweeted Maue.	Currys latestresearch put together for clients of her consulting company near the end of November looks in detail at projections of sea level rise.	True
We have to think about the whole world.	Because weve got to be working on all fronts.	And thats why many of my plans intersect with our global opportunities and responsibilities.	They keep pulling stuff up that they dont even know what it is.	And so what do they do?	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report.	The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Essentially the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans.	True
Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?	We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said.	economy thefossil fuel industry runs thiseconomy it'screated all of thiswealth revolutionizedtransportation communications industry lifted people out of poverty Watters said.	Watters asked.	O'Rourke also said that he wanted people in the fossil fuel industry to act as partners in reaching his goal.	True
It is good economics.	The views are their own.	Policies work best when they are narrowly tailored to the behavior that they seek to alter.	But we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good.	While concerns about government waste are certainly real they can be avoided through smart policy design.	False
Under Trump the fossil fuel industry has wielded unusual influence over the agency that supposedly regulates it and beleaguered staff fret that its public health mission is at risk of being buried.	He will talk to us.	I wasnt interested in that.	Scott Pruitt who on Thursday resigned as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency was a firm favourite of Donald Trump.	I am still not interested in that.	False
have adopted almost precisely as I proposed it in 2008.	According to the group which is led by former Secretaries of State James Baker III and George Shultz and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson their plan would tax fossil fuel companies and redistribute the funds back to Americans in equal portions thereby artificially raising the price of fossil fuels and making renewable energy sources more competitive.	In a recent interview with the Scientific American noted climate alarmist James Hansen which the article refers to as the father of climate change awareness said the plan promoted by Republicans is similar to one he developed in 2008 and would be popular with the American people.	This way it actually stimulates the economy Hansen said.	If its a tax taken by the government it makes the government bigger and it depresses the economy.	False
Were bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death 17 year old organizer Maddie Graham said.	The host asked Warren a listener question name the specific steps she has taken in her campaign to ensure that your campaigns environmental impact is limited as possible.	We need systemic change.	All those with hopes and dreams who cherish the future are invited to gather in the shadow of the Halls of Congress.	Think about that three things 70 percent reduction she added.	False
Its a danger to the air we breathe.	This is something Ive taken on in California I have a history of working on this issue she added.	But for me I think the way we get there is we just say sorry guys but by 2035 youre done she said during CNNs town hall.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Jay Inslee D ahead of CNNs town hall.	False
As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	This proposal goes one step further by shrinking the overall size of government and streamlining the regulatory state.	The meeting sparked speculation that the White House was considering a carbon tax as part of a broader tax reform plan.	False
'Not the cause of it but the things that we observe.'	'The United States is one of the best in the world at doing this we want to continue to do that but right now the administration is focused on the recovery and the relief efforts and as Tom Bossert said a few minutes ago we'll look at that analysis once we get through the coming days and focus on the recovery and relief and saving life effort' Huckabee Sanders added.	'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced' Pruitt said.	When Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked about a link Monday she touted the country's environmental record and moved on.	But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red versus blue divide.	False
Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them.	Plans include raising coastal infrastructure protecting vulnerable supply chains and increasing disaster training.	It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures.	I believe the climate is changing.	I dont know why he said.	True
As we use and reuse things it gives us some social engagement status.	It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains.	I think part of the benefit of a detailed audit like this is that it increases everyone's mindfulness about what they are doing with food says Gordon Jackson the manager of the resort's Waste to Wealth initiative.	For many hotels simple knowledge of the issue has resulted in greater observance from staff and ultimately less waste.	In May I experienced one hotel's efforts firsthand as I stood on the roof at ITC Maurya a hotel in Delhi.	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling but additional factors have likely played a part Jensen added.	True
She already has an honour to her name after winning Amnesty International's highest Ambassadors of Conscience human rights award last month.	Putin said young people who paid attention to environmental issues should be supported.	The 16 year old Swede started the Fridays for Future movement to demand action be taken to combat global warming and is currently taking a year off school to focus on campaigning.	She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth.	But head activism has led to criticism from from world leaders and others who allege she is being manipulated.	True
The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat.	That was the right thing to do.	The store's owners have been forced to lay off about 60 percent of its workers in recent years.	He put America first and said to the rest of the world we are going to say no and exit the Paris Accord.	Follow him at This story has been corrected to show the percentage of coal jobs created under Trump was 4 percent.	False
But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials.	Interiors internal watchdog recently opened two ethics probes the first of them just four days into Bernhardts tenure intomultiple high ranking interior officials including the secretary.	Rep. Betty McCollum D Minn. the subcommittees chair quoted from the U.N. report and told Bernhardt the country is depending on you to help lead the fight along with us to combat these issues including the biodiversity and climate crises.	Bernhardt stressed as he has before that he takes ethics extremely seriously is working to improve the agencys ethics program and is confident that he has complied with all rules and will be cleared at the end of the investigation.	If you have a view on what you want to happen well carry it out when you execute it.	False
It can be summed up in one word confusion.	Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical.	They seem not to have read it.	It appears that Trumps real purpose was to please his base while blunting criticism with the hint that he might change his mind.	Instead Trump hopes to show that he is standing up to the world community on behalf of Americas interests.	False
Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	People adapt rather easily.	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics.	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	False
To not say anything about it is just ignorance and its irresponsible.	It was something that was going to happen when peoples grandchildren were alive.	Lisa Graumlich the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal.	Joel Clement who resigned from the interior department because he said the administration was muzzling scientists and ignoring climate change effects on vulnerable communities now works with the Union of Concerned Scientists.	The New York congressman Paul Tonko invited the League of Conservation Voters Gene Karpinski and the Maryland congressman Jamie Raskin brought along 350.orgs Bill McKibben.	False
How a person can have such unshakable certainty in the outcome of complex future events is truly remarkable.	Perhaps Mr. Schneider should consider what a war on the environment would actually look like.	The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	Maybe they just want an America that is able to think and act for itself rather than one that bows to ever fad espoused by globalist elites.	One hardly knows where to begin in taking apart an argument that is literally filled with errors fallacies inconsistencies and non sequiturs.	True
We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign.	With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016.	Bakersfield Calif. wasin second place for ozone pollution.	True
Co author Sammy de Grave head of research at the Oxford University Museum added The study was published in the journal Communications Biology.	Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda.	Diversity takes millions of years to evolve but can be damaged in the blink of an eye.	We are already losing diversity that has never even been documented so it's vitally important to understand the mechanisms that drive evolution into new species.	Humans are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of species not seen since the demise of the dinosaurs British scientists warned.	False
Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest.	The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	The federal government under Presidents Barack Obama and Donald Trump has argued the case has no merit and repeatedly sought to have it dismissed.	Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week.	The suit Juliana v. US also known as the childrens climate lawsuit was first filed in 2015 and now includes 21 plaintiffs between the ages of 11 and 22 including Sophie Kivlehan 20 the granddaughter of the famed climate scientist James Hansen.	False
We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	As one of Florida's leading environmental researchers Dr. Frazer understands the unique water issues facing our state and the actions we must take to solve them he said Monday.	And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said .	DeSantis appointed Thomas Frazer a biologist who has been director of the University of Florida's School of Natural Resources and Environment since 2012 and previously worked as acting director of the UF Water Institute In the new position he will coordinate Florida's research data and scientific work and make sure officials have the scientific analysis they need to tackle the state's environmental problems.	There's also a chance that more than 346 billion in property value will bebelow sea level by 2100 studies show Frazer said he's honored by the appointment.	False
When the threat arose yesterday people were still doing their activities on the beach and did not immediately run and they became victims he told a news briefing.	You can also contact us in the following ways	At least 540 have been injured and 29 are listed as missing.	Rescue efforts are under way though hampered by a major power cut.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque among the buildings damaged.	False
That aims to ensure development projects arent built in areas where minority populations might not have the resources to defend their rights.	In its analysis of the Missouri River crossing the Corps studied the mostly white demographics in a half mile 0.8 kilometer radius which the agency maintains is standard.	The Corps must simply connect the dots he said.	It includes increased public reporting of pipeline issues such as repairs and implementation of a spill response plan including equipment staging at Lake Oahe.	The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice.	False
They say the president favours development over conservation.	Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	Mr Bolsonaro who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed has not commented on the latest data.	Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?	As the largest rainforest in the world the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming.	False
This means conservation preserving culture and facilitating recreation.	We should be in the business of being a partner.	Our mandate is multiple use of public lands and multiple use also includes the development of natural resources as we seek to leverage American energy for American strength Zinke wrote in the departments 2018 22 strategic plan.	The Government Accountability Office had to end a probe in June into whether Zinke threatened Sen. Lisa Murkowski R AK over her vote on Obamacare because the Interior Department didnt cooperate.	Theres rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office.	False
To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment.	I have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration SBA.	Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants.	UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems.	This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	Melissa Baldwin co organizer of Miami Climate Month which organized the rally says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami they wanted to put a spotlight on climate change because you cant come to Miami without talking about climate change.	Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off dozens of local activists in Miami Florida held an Underwater Climate Rally calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate.	False
They rely for so much and we would be giving them so little.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In his statement Monday however Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally.	Our results speak for themselves he wrote.	GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS' Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions Sen. Jim Inhofe R Okla. said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016.	Others however see America backing out of the international pact to limit greenhouse gas emissions as an abdication of global leadership and denial of basic climate science.	False
This has to do with active forest management.	Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	California Democratic Gov.	But theres been a change in fire behavior over the last century as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes.	False
She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing.	She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelts New Deal Lyndon B. Johnsons Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know how and capability.	A joint resolution drafted by Ocasio Cortez and Markey sets a goal to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean renewable and zero emission energy sources including dramatic increases in wind and solar power.	Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security.	A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday the day they introduce the resolution.	False
I'm not a scientist but I'm a keen observer Eskridge said.	The town hall featured people across the country who challenged Gore on the issue or asked his thoughts.	I was worried that other countries might use it as an excuse to pull out themselves Gore said.	We have the ability to prevent even worse sea level rise and and even worse catastrophes that are also caused by the climate crisis Gore said.	But Gore's and Ivanka's influence clearly was not enough.	False
It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says.	Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour.	So what could be behind these cases?	While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part.	It's probably not anything to do with what humans have done.	False
Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	Its time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time.	Jessie Braverman the groups media liaison told RT that around 25 people showed up at the train tracks to address climate change and let the governor know that if he isnt going to stop the terminal than we will.	While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude by rail they have taken few steps toward increasing safety Inslee wrote in an op ed for the Columbian last year.	In 2014 the state of Washington passed legislation to increase track and hazardous material inspections require oil spill contingency plans increase funding for prevention and cleanup of oil spills and improve safety at crossings along oil train routes.	False
The report the Fourth National Climate Assessment Volume II supplements a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming and which warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet.	The entire report can be viewed at	The Congressionally mandated report written with the help of more than a dozen U.S. government agencies and departments outlined the projected impacts of global warming in every corner of American society in a dire warning at odds with the Trump administrations pro fossil fuels agenda.	Thirteen government departments and agencies from the Agriculture Department to NASA were part of the committee that compiled the new report.	Environmental groups said the report reinforced their calls for the United States to take action on climate change.	False
Like this story?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	wondered one user.	Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses.	False
Thats despite the fact that the 38 page document projects more frequent and more expensive disasters.	This is a glaring omission from an agency that deals with anticipating and responding to weather extremes driven in part by a changing climate.	Its not just rhetoric.	And some government research grant applications faced extra scrutiny and rejection for mentioning the double C word.	But it wasnt so coy in its previous 2014 2018 strategic plan which noted that the agency will also ensure that future risks including those influenced by climate change are effectively integrated into the Agencys risk assessment resources and processes.	False
The shift from 'future problem'to 'now crisis'is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real world catastrophes.	That is rapidly changing how Americans think about it David Doniger with the Natural Resources Defense Council wrote in a recent blog.	We need to be reaching out to broaden our base and if you look at this last election our base is narrowing unfortunately he said.	I talk to our kids and young people all the time and they are more environmentally sensitive they're more pro alternative energy they get the natural gas thing instead of coal.	And yetfew including Doniger expect Washingtonto do muchany time soon in the dramatic way scientistsare urging.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	Meet the trees get to know their superpowers and learn how scientists are trying to protect them.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America.	Steyer then shifted focus to cleaning up the air and water in the black and brown communities where our pollution is concentrated and claimed it would create millions of middle class union jobs.	False
The public health community should be there too.	Its not just the future of the planet thats at stake here.	For the White House bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters.	But whats largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact peoples health.	Which means that the White Houses move to repeal the Clean Power Plan is a one two punch to human health and the environment said Georges Benjamin executive director of the American Public Health Association.	False
It's made us more sustainable environmentally and also economically.	His hope is that the concept will spread here.	In addition to food donations Whole Foods composts this waste to energy system is yet another way to meet its goal.	It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region.	The process begins by gathering wasted food from around the state including from many Whole Foods locations.	False
As president I have one obligation and that obligation is to the Americanpeople Trump said during a speech in theRose Garden announcingthe decision.	California Gov.	Were moving forward.	We believe the rest of the world will do the same.	Jerry Brown said he hopes Trump's insane move to back out of the Paris accord will spur others to action.	False
One of the most touted projects it has steered donors to is Participant Media an activist entertainment company that produces movies with a message.	Among the films Participant has championed are George Clooneys CIA conspiracy thrillers Al Gores climate change documentaries and a docudrama celebrating Ruth Bader Ginsburgs legal career.	A clear giveaway is that the movie begins with the disclaimer inspired by true events rather than the more commonly used based on a true story.	No one doubts that there was real liability in the case but Dark Waters is a conspiracy horror movie that ignores facts to shake up its audience.	But the film has served as a springboard for calls to environmental activism.	False
The most effective environmental efforts are often small personal actions in which people have skin in the game.	Every Earth Day we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues.	Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day bluster George Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self righteous without making any real sacrifice.	Those who considered themselves skeptical of climate change were most likely to report engaging in individual level pro environmental behaviors.	Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference.	False
Its the best way to send a pricing signal.	He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation.	One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use.	Mr. ORourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas.	Asylum laws Mr. ORourke said should include those who have been impacted by climate change.	False
Jobs matter!'	On Earth Day thousands of scientists students and research advocatesmarched around the world in protest of Trump's research budget cuts.	The president's statement focused on the beauty of nature and the importance of preserving it for future generations.	Our work is not done.'	By comparison last year President Obama's message in 2016 took on an urgent tone and said 'Human activity is disrupting the climate and the challenge of combating climate change is one that will define the contours of our time.'	False
I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves.	At the University of Nevada Reno Stallar Lufrano Jardine 36 is setting up an event on campus where she's an employee and student.	And a quarter of the poll respondents said they have participated in a school walk out a rally or contacted a government official on the issue.	Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes respect of indigenous land sustainable agriculture protecting biodiversity environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy said 17 year old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar.	There have been similar student events in the past year.	False
He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species.	The plan calls for ensuring that public lands waters and oceans are protected and restoring and protecting threatened endangered and fragile ecosystems.	Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps.	We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday.	Castro Harris Sen. Cory Booker D N.J. and former Vice President Joe Biden have all committed to working toward protecting 30 of Americas land and water by 2030.	False
Pitting important environmental goals against working families who rely on affordable American energy is a false choice the organization said.	These executives have spent hundreds of millions of dollars protecting their profits at the expense of our future and they will do whatever it takes to squeeze every last penny out of the Earth his website reads.	The American Petroleum Institute a trade association for the oil and gas industry responded to Sanders in a statement to Fox News.	And the benefits are enormous by taking bold and decisive action we will save 2.9 trillion over 10 years 21 trillion over 30 years and 70.4 trillion over 80 years.	Former New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman led a coalition of more than a dozen states in investigating ExxonMobil over allegations it misled the public about climate change.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Most who took part in the summit agreed that afee on carbon emissions is pivotal in reforming the U.S. energy sector according to an Axios report.	That is more than 21000 in income loss per family a portion of the letter read.	Ernest Moniz who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration took part in the summit and said one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low carbon system.	False
Etc.	People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs people who deny that a fetus is a whole human people who insist fetal pain is a myth people who get outraged by claims that say men cant get pregnant.	Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	Both GLAAD and Human Rights Watch cant seem to decide whether the science is bad because its fake and flawed or bad because it might work.	The point is that opponents dont like this science because of the political and social consequences of it.	False
It was about U.S. money going to other countries.'	'It simply sounds like a transfer of wealth from the United States to other countries.'	Addressing these risks requires broad based practical solutions around the world.'	'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket and you make them put it back in they're not going to be happy.	'I think the president is right.'	False
Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said.	Lets help bring the death knell to this industry thats done so much harm.	She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industrys license to operate.	Manufacturers and conservative groups worry trial attorneys are behind the spat of climate litigation.	NYCs lawsuit does appear to suggest the intent is not to destroy but rather to mitigate harm.	False
The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell.	1 donorhas been NextEra Energy the Florida electric utility which is one of the largest purveyors of solar and wind energy projects in the country.	Debbie Mucarsel Powell is a climate champion and the advocate South Floridians need as they watch sea levels rise see beaches destroyed by red tide and live with the increasing threat of stronger more powerful hurricanes.	If Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is he wouldnt be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement.	We sure appreciate the help from the NRCC in calling out politicians who take dirty fossil fuel money and then obstruct progress on climate change and are looking forward to similar NRCC ads attacking every single one of their own candidates said RL Miller Climate Hawks Votes political director in a statement.	False
However there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers.	Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?	Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes?	An early draft of the government publication the US Climate Science Special Report published by the New York Times notes an observed upward trend in North Atlantic hurricane activity since the 1970s.	However expects it to result in more intense tropical cyclones globally with substantially higher rainfall rates by the end of the 21st century.	False
They have an energy and will to innovation that is not only infectious but inspiring.	They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.	And the resolution just doesn't quite get us there says Nicole Ghio senior fossil fuel program manager at Friends of the Earth.	It calls for a speedy shift in energy generation from fossil fuels to renewable sources like wind and solar and for a fair and just transition for all communities and workers.	We need not to discourage them she says.	False
Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	It was Bolton who recruited Happer to the National Security Council and backed his effort to create an anti science panel according to The New York Times.	While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement.	A retired Princeton physics professor with no expertise in climatology Happer has served as President Donald Trumps deputy assistant for emerging technologies on the National Security Council since September 2018.	William Happer the White Houses most veteran climate change denier who tried unsuccessfully to establish an ad hoc panel to challenge near universally accepted climate science is leaving the Trump administration according to reports from EE Newsand Bloomberg.	False
On Wednesday a list of demands was released by a coalition of youth led groups whose lodestar is Greta Thunberg the Swedish teenager and activist who sparked a global wave of walkouts by school students over the climate crisis.	Nothing.	We should be organizing the world demanding change we need a diplomat in chief Biden said.	With many questions focused on what candidates would ask Americans to sacrifice Elizabeth Warren pushed back on the framing.	But most of the responsibility lies with industry not individuals she said adding this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants us to talk about.	False
Even you.	Do you know what?	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	Second Rothman appears to have given himself so much margin for error as to render his doomsday projection meaningless.	In the geologic past this type of behavior is associated with mass extinction.	False
Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary.	It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	A policy briefing from the Woods Hole Research Center concludes that the IPCC doesnt adequately account for a methane warming feedback While most attention has been given to carbon dioxide it isnt the only greenhouse gas that scientists are worried about.	Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.	Carbon dioxide is the most important human emitted greenhouse gas but methane has also increased in the atmosphere and it adds to our concerns.	False
We stand for spreading the word about the science we do especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people.	Published with permission of The American Independent.	The intent is to try to suppress a message in this case the increasing danger of human caused climate change said Michael Mann a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University.	The people who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms droughts wildfires and heat waves.	In one instance about research on rice the agency tried to dissuade a research partner the University of Washington from publicly discussing research.	False
People they note are finally paying attention.	When the Times doesnt challenge a pro life message better read closely.	Meanwhile reporter Lisa Friedman on Tuesday used a comment from the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to stick up for the tasteless global warming warriors now using the tragedy of Hurricane Irma to forward their environmental agenda in For E.P.A.	The text box Concerns that the U.S. is dodging questions on global warming.	He presents himself as a man who is pro life.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices revenue from the tax would be given back out to households.Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one third over a 10 year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050 compared to 2015 emission levels.	Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	We hope our bipartisan bill will spur action on climate change before its too late.	False
By now its clear there is no legitimate public interest in further expanding risk to our oceans in pursuit of fossil fuels that we dont need Lawrence said.	The League of Conservation Voters LCV led eight other groups in a legal challengeof Trumps recent executive order to reopen large swaths of Arctic seas to offshore drilling.LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election.	The group filed at least two lawsuits in April challenging Trumps delaying energy efficiency standards for appliances and the administrations refusal to ban certain pesticides.	Theyalso tried to intervene in a lawsuit against a national ocean monument Obama created.	Theyare living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office namely to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies.	False
Its a danger to the air we breathe.	They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	They must be immediately banned.	No.	False
Under Scope of the Plan a section on labor states the committees final plan shall Require strong enforcement of labor workplace safety and wage standards that recognize the rights of workers to organize and unionize free of coercion intimidation and harassment and creation of meaningful quality career employment.	So whats actually in it?	Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	Its scope and mandate for legislative authority amounts to a radical grant of power to Washington over Americans lives homes businesses travel banking and more.	Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	False
Its a challenging issue.	But at what cost is this being done especially when nobody else is doing anything.	Im taking a very pragmatic look at it in scoping this Newsom told The Los Angeles Times recently.	Its also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry that have jobs communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism.	Newsomunderstands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow.	False
Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	People adapt rather easily.	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics.	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	False
Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence.	Either way you should stick to what the best available science says not the fear mongering of anti conservative zealots.	This is total nonsense.	The reason the Washington Post and others are consistently alleging despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary that Republicans are somehow to blame for natural disasters such as Hurricane Florence is either because they know absolutely nothing about the topic or because they believe it will help Democrats win elections.	False
Because as the great Samuel L. Jackson once uttered on film Never make assumptions.	Thank you for the question and its a good question.	They only end up making an ass out of u and mption'.	Okay?	Britta used her one opportunity to quiz a presidential candidate to ask aboutmeat.	False
