This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger.	Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone!	Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left.	Absent from Bernies argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what itll do to the economy and public services two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about.	This dystopian idea attracted attention recently after Bernie Sanders brought it up at the last Democrat presidential debate saying people need to be need to curb population growth.	True
When do they want it?	Fifth to end oppression and bring about the redistribution of power.	Fourth to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone.	What do they want?	Second to guarantee millions of good high wage jobs and economic security.	False
The 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque amongst the buildings damaged.	The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Officials have reported five deaths but it is not clear if those were as a result of the tsunami.	Last month a series of earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok killing hundreds of people the biggest on 5 August killed more than 460.	False
Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	The world must wake up.	Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey retweeted links to a report signed by more than 11000 scientists who argue that the population must be stabilizedand ideally gradually reducedwithin a framework that ensures social integrity.	So must the solution.	Citizens generally are more concerned about getting a good education obtaining better healthcare and achieving political freedoms than they are tackling climate change according to a 2015 survey from the United Nations.	False
Were addressing the issue.	He added that were the cleanest weve ever been.	Administration officials havetouted these declines to explain their push to boost fossil fuels as well as to defend the presidentsdecision last year to withdraw the U.S. from the historic Paris accord on combating climate change.	Everyone else is up he said referring to other countries overall emissions.	We have our own plan.	False
SANDERS CALLS FOR 'REGISTRY OF DISREPUTABLE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS' CUTTING PRISON POPULATION IN HALF The Vermont senator has long been an advocate for the Green New Deal but only this year has it become a central policy for many of those seeking the Democratic nomination for president.	He also promises justice for frontline communities via a 40 billion Climate Justice Resiliency Fund as well as an extra 200 billion to the Green Climate Fund.	introduced a formal resolution on it which stalled in the Senate but drewsupport from a number of 2020 hopefuls.	This year it was given a big push in Congress when Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass.	In a nod to the social justice part of the plan he says that the deal is an opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social racial and economic justice including redressing the exclusion of black brown Native Americanand other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal.	False
Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050.	Mr. Sanders unveiled his proposal one day after Gov.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	False
Thats what good government looks like.	Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences came together and took courageous action.	California is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health economy and future said Fred Krupp president of the Environmental Defense Fund.	But other climate activists declared themselves pleased with the outcome pointing out that it showed that action to reduce emissions is bipartisan and popular.	Defendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earths climate and sea levels the complaint states.	False
For years now its been clear that blocking environmental regulations and obstructing action on climate change are top Republican Party priorities.	The actual Paris deal agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 is aspirational rather than binding calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction.	The GOPs leading politicians and media outlets have tended to praise fossil fuel companies and ignore or cast doubt on climate science.	President Donald Trump announced his decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord at 3 pm Eastern in the White House Rose Garden.	The Associated Presss Jill Colvin and Julie Pace though report that Trumps decision may not be entirely clear cut and that aides continued to deliberate on caveats in the language.	False
Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando who was keen that it should become an ecological haven it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet.	Technology could help here too.	But you'd be surprised.	It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	Led by Dr Herv Bossin of the Institut Louis Malard the programme breeds and releases non biting male mosquitoes infected with a Wolbachia virus that makes wild females who do bite sterile.	False
We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life.	Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement expanding drilling on federal lands and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks.	The Trump administration has targeted dozens of rules.	The Trump administration has spent two years giving away the store to fossil fuel companies and Republicans in Congress cheered every step of the way says Grijalva.	President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office.	False
Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil.	You are failing us.	Right here right now is where we draw the line.	People are suffering.	And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth.	False
Permitting 16 year old children to obtain abortions without parental consent is also on the docket for Virginian Democrats.	21 states that A minor shall be deemed an adult for the purpose of consenting to Medical or health services related to abortion birth control pregnancy or family planning except for the purposes of sexual sterilization.	HB 145 mandates that the Virginia Department of Education come up with school board model policies concerning the treatment of transgender students in public elementary and secondary schools that address common issues regarding transgender students in accordance with evidence based best practices.	Some of the proposed specifics are harmless such as section 3 which says that the developed policies should prevent and respond to bullying and harassment.	Prior to this bill Virginia Code 16.1 241 required minors to have the permission of a guardian before having an abortion.	False
To be honest it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time.	These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work.	In reality nothing is quite that straightforward.	But unlike those figures which relied on one line of evidence the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result.	Perhaps it should have been but that was the view of the academic community then.	False
The world is not flat pollution is not free and the health and safety of our children is not for sale said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra standing alongside the governor.	Pollutants coming out of vehicles out of the tailpipe does permanent lung damage to children living near well traveled roads and freeways.	This is a fact.	The rules were set six years ago when California and the Obama administration agreed to a single nationwide fuel economy standard.	At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions.	True
It isnt just a coincidence that this is no longer the reality in our country.	The Obama administration claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power power in the hands of the federal government over landowners Wheeler said.	The issue has often come down to the definition of navigable waters under the Clean Water Act.	Polluters were allowed to dump toxic waste into our waterways without consequence.	In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time Trump called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation.	False
It is inherently political like everything else Its in the U.S. Constitution Article 1 Section 8 to promote the progress of science and useful arts.	Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration I just want to remind the administration that science is political.	Donald Trump isnt just shirking his constitutional responsibility to advance scientific innovation but hesputting at risk the only planet we have.	As thousands of activists and scientists around the world gather to March for Science Bill Nye has a U.S. Constitution lesson for Donald Trump that proves he must advance scientific causes.	And my interpretationof the expression useful arts is engineering.	False
Correspondent Chip Reid echoed by referencing worldwide condemnation.	The twin disasters of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showcased once again the media's reflex to use such tragedies to push for liberal climate change policies.	The commentary in these stories was as one sided as the rest of Trump's coverage has been with 88 percent of evaluative statements criticizing the President vs. a mere 12 percent that praised him.	Thus our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line Republicans supporting Trump Democrats criticizing him and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story such as statements from experts presented as non partisan voters or opinionated statements from the networks own reporters.	Using these criteria MRC analysts tallied 121 evaluative statements about the Trump administrations approach to the environment from January 20 to August 31 2017 of which 106 88 were negative vs. a mere 15 12 which were positive.	False
Each of these is an outrageous moral failure.	Assuring that all have life liberty and the pursuit of happiness is a fundamental moral commitment that we share as citizens working together for the common good of all people and the whole creation.	The following post written by The Rev.	And still repugnant Republicans put profits over people and stupid over scientific data.	Without a habitable environment that is safe from toxic waste harmful chemicals and dangerous carbon dioxide emissions leading to an ever warming planet how can anyone be assured of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness?	False
Whats the takeaway from all this?	They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos.	Pre Extinction Powerful and suggests another mass extinction is imminent if we do not change our ways today.	The Great Collapse The collapse of ecosystems economies and our way of life.	Both are states of events that you absolutely want to avoid.	False
While political spin doctors often find ways to parse language and statistics to say things that are plausibly defensible but which are ultimately misleading or just wrong for me such misrepresentations have gone too far in an area where I have some considerable expertise Pielke wrote.	Her call even got a reaction from NPR which defended its reporting but was sympathetic to her message.	The willingness of some in the media and the scientific community to offer false or misleading claims does not offer a route to scientific integrity Pielke wrote.	Pielkes career beentargetedby Democratic lawmakers and activist journalists to impress a billionaire donor.	California Democratic Gov.	False
But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	Theres an issue with that.	Andrew Cuomos support.	It is like 87 percent opposed.	Certainly.	False
Its the biggest threat of all.	Most of the threats from climate change are 50 to 75 years out Wheeler asserted adding that the world should be focused on the people who are dying today the thousand children that die every day from lack of drinking water.	Early in his tenure former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt prioritized fixing Superfund the struggling and financially strapped program responsible for cleaning up the nations most contaminated sites.	Pruitt said that it wasnt a lack of money that was plaguing the program but rather poor leadership and poor focus on the part of the Obama administration.	Lets put aside the fact that climate change is not some distant challenge but one already wreaking havoc on communities around the globe and that Wheeler has proposed gutting existing regulations that protect drinking water.	True
I am hopeful that the exposure of such intolerance will lead to an improved working environment in my department and among others in my discipline Mass said via email Wednesday.	The picture has since been removed.	The assistant deans email claimed the blog had imagery and text that was racially insensitive and caused offense to a significant number of members in the departmental community.	Name calling and politicization of science are toxic to the scientific enterprise and undermines our credibility in the general community.	I 1631 will be a trough of billions of dollars of cash for left leaning social action and progressive groups and dealing with climate change will be a secondary priority Mass wrote in a blog post with a picture of pigs feeding at a trough.	False
Most of us would be excited with any life said Mary Voytek an astrobiology senior scientist for NASA.	While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article.	Voytek said her money is still on Europa for potential life versus Enceladus since Europa is much older and any potential life there has had more time to emerge.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	The findings were reported Thursday in the journal Science by a team from Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio.	False
In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll 83 of Democrats thought the US should be doing more compared to 62 of independents and 26 of Republicans.	That's up from 2010 when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them.	Eight in 10 Democrats 54 of independents and 22 of Republicans thought in August that climate change has an impact the fires.	Fewer Republicans one third said more should be done about climate change and another third of Republicans thought that the US is doing enough to address climate change.	The Trump administration chose to speed up release of the new report which is required by law putting it out on Black Friday instead of in December.	False
The abolition of slavery.	Womens suffrage and womens rights.	The climate movement not least in cities is right now in the tradition of all the great moral causes that have improved the circumstances of humanity throughout our history Gore said in the speech.	Fox Friends criticized Gore for comparing the climate change fight to fights against moral issues such as slavery and apartheid in a July 13 speech at the Ecocity World summit in Australia.	The civil rights movement and the anti apartheid movement in South Africa.	False
Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent.	Previously as Californias attorney general Harris was charged with protecting the states progressive environmental laws in the courts.	At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail.	Last week for example she came under fire from the Sunrise Movement and other climate change activists when she initially declined to participate in the televised Sept. 4 climate change town hall to attend a fundraiser.	Her biggest environmental victory according to green groups came in 2016 when a grand jury indicted Plains All American Pipeline on criminal charges related to a 2015 oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara.	False
Carbon dioxide is actually a benefit to the world and so were the Jews.	In July 2014 Professor Happer caused controversy during an interview on CNBC television climate expert demonization of carbon dio200107 in the United States when he claimed that the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poor Jews under Hitler.	The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers and the recruitment of supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy echoes the campaign by Joseph Stalins regime to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the disastrous lysenko soviet union russia548786 pseudo scientific theories of Trofim Lysenko.	Lysenko wrongly believed that acquired traits could be passed on by parents to their offspring.	He was also forced to defend himself after Greenpeace revealed an exchange of email messages Email Chain Happer O Keefe and Donors Trust.html during which Professor Happer discussed writing reports to promote climate change denial in exchange for a secret fee paid to the CO2 Coalition.	False
Seychelles President Danny Faure said Our large ocean brings development opportunities but also responsibility.	The Oscar winner said This effort will help the people of Seychelles protect their ocean for future generations and will serve as a model for future marine conservation projects worldwide.	Under the terms of the 21m 15m deal the charity and the investors including the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation paid for a portion of the Seychelles national debt.	By planning properly to protect our environment we can be sure we are also protecting our people and their livelihoods against an uncertain future.	In exchange for getting some of its national debt paid off the island nation has agreed to protect 210000 sq km 81000 sq miles of ocean.	False
So Im not sure what he was recommending' he told the San Francisco Chronicle.	He didn't thank the armies of firefighters who are battling the blazes or the nine people who have died in the infernos.	And most engaged in the effort are using chemical flame retardants.	President Donald Trump tweeted Sunday that a series of deadly wildfires hitting California are 'being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized.'	Two White House spokespersons did not respond to a question Monday about what Trump's tweet meant.	False
Many of those laws remain in place.	Why do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel said Jim Wilson a 71 year old retired mail carrier from Placerville outside Sacramento.	Comments can be submitted online through March 9.	Jerry Brown and others to request a similar exemption.	The state agencies weighed in ahead of a public meeting Thursday in Sacramento the only opportunity for people to register their opinions in person to the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.	False
On Wednesday one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	In a way that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy.	As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling the reason she called for the Obama era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a reasoned explanation as to why its flawed.	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda the Trump administration has had one goal in mind destroying former President Obamas environmental legacy.	U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a reasoned explanation for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	False
But there werent human beings that was a different world folks Kerry said.	the former secretary of state asked.	the congressman asked.	Are you serious?	Massie asked.	False
Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers but it will come at a price penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform.	Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers.	False
I have a strong opinion.	No.	Were going to have that.	He said Managing the forest is part of it.	And there are fears that the eventual death toll will rise much higher with almost 1300 people still unaccounted for.	False
People are suffering.	We are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	People are dying.	While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom.	The environmentalist movement is increasingly convinced that humanity is destroying the planet and has already called for banning the production and consumption of meat outlawing fossil fuels and shuttering down nuclear power plants despite the cost and burden on people that may produce.	False
Unfortunately for the American people Zinke leaves behind a deputy secretary with similar ethical concerns.	The next secretary should respect public desire for strong environmental standards and an end to corporate favoritism.	And in a statement posted to Twitter the ongoing agency chief said he cannot justify spending thousands of dollars defending myself and my family against false allegations.	Because when America prospers the world is safer.	For all his feigned swagger Ryan Zinke lacked the courage or integrity to face accountability skipping town as soon as he faced scrutiny Evers said.	False
It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures.	Above and beyond its sinfulness failure to care for the environment is an injustice and a crime Francis suggested and should be legally enforced.	But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good.	We must introduce we are thinking about it in the Catechism of the Catholic Church the sin against ecology the ecological sin against the common home because it is a duty the pope said Friday in addressing participants in an international conference on penal law.	The pontiff said that such actions are usually caused by corporations and an elementary sense of justice would require that they be punished for them.	False
Heather McGhee president of the left leaning think tank Demos and the economist Robert Reich called it the most progressive climate equity policy weve seen.	That support cuts across demographics including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites.	The support breaks down similarly across the state with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	Cuomo also signed an executive order last week restoring voting rights to felons on parole and voiced support for legalizing recreational marijuana a policy Nixon made a platform issue in her campaign.	Sixty seven percent of New Yorkers support strengthening enforcement of clean air and water regulations even if it costs U.S. jobs compared to 58 percent nationwide.	False
The Paris Agreement endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC is a bedrock of international action against man made global warming.	The Group of Seven gathering the biggest western democracies comprises Britain Canada France Germany Italy Japan and the United States.	Lacking unanimity Italy which currently presides the Group of Seven decided against proposing the joint statement Calenda said.	Under Obama the United States the second biggest carbon polluter provided critical impetus for the Paris deal by concluding a precursor deal with China the number one emitter.	It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought flood rising seas and other climate impacts.	False
To make it cheaper for coal companies to strip mine in watersheds and make it more expensive for families to visit Yosemite is a perversion of American values said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club.	When its not personal then you revert to what your team has been saying and the values your team has.	That means wise use said Land Tawney president of Backcountry Hunters and Anglers a national conservation group headquartered in Montana.	As such the agency is often the arbiter between oil gas and mining companies seeking access to valuable resources embedded in public lands and environmentalists seeking to protect the same lands for biodiversity wildlife and recreation.	I think the secretary is a fraud.	True
Mowing down a forest to keep the forest from burning is on the crazy side.	But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.	Be the solution not the problem.	I always got your back.	False
It also fined the firm 431000.	The dispute offers a cautionary tale in what one critic described as regulatory capture of a state agency by a company with deep ties to the Trump administration and a reputation as an environmental pariah unafraid to deploy scorched earth tactics against its opponents.	Our only concern is while were supporting they at least have to follow the rules.	Theyve offered options when we were stuck.	The company has flagrantly challenged the OEPAs authority infuriating the agency and eliciting a rare public investigation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC the federal agency that regulates interstate electricity and natural gas operations.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	No matter what the answer is most or all of it.	Its as simple as that.	Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet.	Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is contributing to climate change Icant tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity.	False
It's now crystal clear President Trump is comfortable both ceding the moral high ground and the economic upper hand to countries like China and endangering the future of our planet.	We can and we must do both.	President Trump's decision will prove to be the right course of action and one I fully support.	Future generations will look back on President Trump's decision as one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing.	President Obama made commitments in this deal based off a costly power plan that we knew at the time was on shaky legal ground.	False
Measures like Colorados anti fracking Proposition 112 and Washington states Initiative 1631 to price carbon emissions were defeated in part due to a firehose of money being unleashed by fossil fuel interests.	Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U turn going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025.	Environmentalists lamenting that a green wave didnt wash over Congress can find a glimmer of hope in the results of several key governor races.	That gives states like Nevada another lever to drive climate policies.	They also play a huge role in how federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act are enforced.	False
Dont they override or mightnt they override the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?	Should they just get out?	PS Has flood insurance basically induced people to take risks that they shouldnt be taking?	But right now during this era that were living in human activities and the burning of fossil fuels is by far the most powerful influence.	The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity.	False
In a statement the current chief executive of Exxon Mobil Darren W. Woods said the company was encouraged by the climate groups proposal which aligns closely with our longstanding principles.	Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday.	A company spokesman said the liability component of the plan was not part of the companys decision to endorse it.	Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking Steven Chu a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama Michael R. Bloomberg the former New York mayor and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata.	For this to pass it will have to pass on a bipartisan basis Mr. Halstead said.	False
If you dont defend these standards the Sierra Club and our allies will.	As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitts conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement however its important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting.	Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants.	Nothing better illustrates this than the sweetheart deal Pruitt received from the wife of a dirty energy lobbyist who had business before the EPA .	Have you lost your mind?	False
Congress should address that at some point.	And with all respect really that's where I have to focus on.	... Those are things so important to citizens of Florida right now and to discuss the cause and effect of these storms there's the... place and time to do that it's not now.	After Harvey 'we have to protect ourselves' After Harvey 'we have to protect ourselves'	To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	True
In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system.	Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately.	As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case.	No small matter.	With the case currently tied up in appeals the plaintiffs wanted to make sure the current state of affairs with respect to climate change doesnt get worse as the wheels of justice slowly turn.	False
Set aside for the moment the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours seven consecutive hours of prime time programming to the subject.	Bernie Sanders suggested global population control encouraged by organizations that promote abortion abroad.	Banning nuclear energy.	5.	No compromises on the road to utopia.	False
A huge monument spanning nearly 500000 acres and proclaimed in May 2014.	The area was protected to safeguard an ecosystem of deep sea corals three species of whale and an endangered species of sea turtle the Kemps ridley.	Covering nearly 300000 acres of remote desert north east of Las Vegas the Gold Butte monument was created by Obama in December 2016.	Environmental groups have vowed legal action to stymie any alterations to the protected areas.	Roxanne Quimby co founder of Burts Bees cosmetics and her foundation purchased tracts of land in the northern reaches of Maine with the purpose of creating a national park.	False
Minus 3 is not that far from zero Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times.	That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	Located in high latitudes it covers about 24 percent of the land surface in the northern hemisphere and can be up to 1km thick.	Scientists estimate the thawing could contribute as much as 1.7F 1C to global warming over the next several centuries regardless of what nations do to reduce emissions from burning fossil fuels and other activities.	Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released.	False
They dont want to be informed.	They go to the same little trough of Kool Aid every day.	Ive heard the climate change argument back and forth.	What makes Zinkes statements during his trip to California so astonishing is that they come two days after he stressed the importance of being informed and open minded.	And they dont want to expand their paradigm and look at the actual facts.	False
The people have been heard and will continue to be heard Brune said.	I pledged to take action and today I am keeping that promise he said.	Greenpeace USAs senior climate and energy campaigner Diana Best also released a statement condemning Trumps executive order.	As expected the response to Trumps executive order from the environmental community was swift and harsh.	So far Trumps energy policies have aimed at reversing the plentiful environmental protections established by his predecessor former President Barack Obama.	False
Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy.	California is burning.	But we're going to win.	We're running out of time to act.	pic.twitter.commw6dKSxPVj 350 dot org November 13 2018 Members of the Sunrise Movement responding to Pelosis support in their ownstatement on Twitter said they welcomed her endorsement but added that words arent enough.	False
Trumps action empowers Pruitt to ignore science and data in determining compliance with air quality standards saidSara JordanLegislative Representative for the League of Conservation Voters.	One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an expresspriority saidJohn Walke director of theNatural Resources Defense Council's clean air program.	Another would permit the EPA to discount many studies used as the basis for air quality standards for a lack of transparency because those analyses use individual health datathat cant be disclosed because they're protected under federal privacy laws.	These actions are intended to ensure that EPA carries out its core missions of protecting the environment and improving air quality in accord with statutory requirements while reducing unnecessary impediments to new manufacturing and business expansion essential for a growing economy the presidentsaid in a statement accompanying the order.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters.	False
ORourkes measures include U.S. re entry into the Paris Climate Agreement ordering a reduction in methane emissions from oil and gas operations halting new drilling leases on federal land and restoring pollution standards for power plants.	The greatest threat we face which will test our country our democracy every single one of us is climate change ORourke said in a statement.	ORourke the former Texas congressman made climate change the focus of his first major policy announcement unveiling the plan ahead of a campaign stop meeting with scientists at the iconic Yosemite National Park in California.	Other candidates have announced some specific policy measures related to climate change and the environment in recent weeks and Warren has unveiled a public lands policy that would ban new drilling and mining leases on federal lands.	Environmental group the League of Conservation Voters on Monday praised ORourkes plan saying that it offered the kind of leadership we need from the next president.	False
You have in my opinion a Commonwealth that wants to see that.	Virginia Del.	I want to go beyond those issues said Del.	Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for.	I will take a balanced approach to governing.	False
Namely that priority is climate change.	These records reveal Trumps active censorship of science in the name of his political agenda said Meg Townsend open government attorney at the Center for Biological Diversity.	To think that federal agency staff who report about the air water and soil that sustains the health of our nation must conform their reporting with the Trump administrations anti science rhetoric is appalling and dangerous for America and the greater global community.	In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms Moebius Clune wrote that references to economic growth emerging business opportunities in the rural US agro tourism and improved aesthetics should be tolerated if not appreciated by all.	Last week it was revealed that Clovis who is not a scientist once ran a blog where he called progressives race traders and race traitors and likened Barack Obama to a communist.	False
Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top tier concern.	So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	Ahead of the election polls showed that more than 60 percent of Virginians wanted their government to do more about climate change.	Candidates like Joshua Cole who won the election for Virginias 28th House District campaigned on environmental action including upgrading infrastructure to make it more resilient and deploying clean energy.	Like the Green New Deal resolution introduced in the US Congress Virginias version aims to move the state to 100 percent renewable energy while pursuing social welfare programs like job retraining for workers who would lose their jobs in the transition.	False
Not just our children.	The kids are affected the most.	Im concerned because it affects their health.	They have problems breathing.	But its not.	False
Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil.	You are failing us.	Right here right now is where we draw the line.	People are suffering.	And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth.	False
We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns he said.	We're not going to rush to make a decision.	But a couple of things are missing.	We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States.	They signed an agreement which stated there was a need for urgent global action.	True
Opposition MPs have said the raging infernos are a crime against humanity and blamed his policies for fuelling the blazes.	What is being done here is an atrocity against us.	Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation of support for agribusiness of increasing pastures.	For us this is destruction.	We need the forest and our children need the forest.	False
Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass.	Farmers supported the Trump administrations proposal last week tofinalize the rollback of the Obama era Waters of the U.S. rule which had put new restrictions on which waterways agribusiness could pollute.	We call on Congress to put the Green in the Green New Deal Wednesdays letter reads by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this countrys middle class to make family farming economically viable again and to help reverse climate change and improve Americas air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again.	The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10000 members.	Yet even as farmers reel from the effects of President Donald Trumps trade war with China Democratic candidates are far from guaranteed their votes.	False
In an indication of likely conservative opposition to Gaetz'splan advocacy group FreedomWorks issued a statement calling it a sad example of Republicans thinking theyre conservatives by being slightly to the right of far left.	EVIL' His plan which he is putting forward in a House resolutioninvolves a number of planks including revisitingglobal trade and intellectual property policies to create an international marketplace fair to American innovators.	Do we really believe that if we outlaw cars cows planes and buildings that the rest of the world will follow?	Traditionally Republicans have been more skeptical about mans influence on the climate.	But this year it has emerged in the Democratic mainstream with a resolution introduced in the House and support from most major 2020 Democratic presidential candidates.	False
Todays climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations like China to save our climate.	The people believe them.	Yet he submitted the 93 page report suggesting the research behind human caused climate change is more religion than science.	The people believed them he wrote in a December 2015 blog post.	Aztec priests told people they must cut out their beating hearts to bring better climate for their crops.	True
Why is the difference so important?	So the basis of all previous disagreements stems from who gets access to what.	Sunday's agreement goes some way to settling this dispute.	It is an important step in the easing of regional tensions but the deal over the world's largest inland body of water matters for several reasons.	This is important because...	False
This story is part of a group of stories called Vox Sentences is your daily digest for whats happening in the world.	Buzzfeed News Otillia Steadman If a person can accomplish all of that positivity with so little imagine what they could do with a little bit of support and encouragement.	Your daily wrap up for the day in news.	Roll Call Michael Macagnone The Council on Foreign Relations Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters granting political agency dividing up federal funds and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations.	NBC29 CJ Paschall Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses.	False
Still the policy seems far off at best.	4 priority and voters of color in that age range ranked it No.	3.	In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	Voters aged 18 29 ranked green jobs as their No.	False
They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory.	Of course the purpose of studies such as these which remarkably continue to receive funding is ultimately practical rather than speculative.	Event attributionthe ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warmingis exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst even according to true believers.	At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012 one participant argued that given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims they are unjustifiably speculative basically unverifiable and better not made at all.	Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude with unusual modesty that better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming.	False
Lawmakers pointing to President Donald Trump's skepticism about climate change and his administration's steady rollback of measures meant to mitigate the impacts of global warming were scathing.	Those omissions are just one reason lawmakers greeted the Congressionally mandated report with eviscerating criticism on Friday.	The report is an inadequate incomplete partisan document said Sen. Jack Reed the ranking Democratic member of the Armed Services Committee.	The report reads like an introductory primer and carries about as much value as a phonebook he said.	The Pentagon report notes that the department is incorporating climate resilience as a cross cutting consideration for our planning and decision making process and not as a separate program or specific set of actions.	False
Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs but a taxpayer funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly are abandoned or when owners dont have the resources.	Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	At some point such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non responsive Thomas said.	Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach.	The recommended cut in the LUST program is part of the presidents proposal to reduce the Environmental Protection Agency budget by 31 next year.	False
Liz Perera climate policy director for the Sierra Club said repealing the Clean Power Plan is about one thing and one thing only helping corporate polluters profit.	They are denying it just as they are denying the science.	Industry groups cheered the planned repeal saying it would reverse regulatory overreach by Obama and McCarthy.	The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43 page document which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry.	The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers said Hal Quinn president and CEO of the National Mining Association.	False
This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations said David Doniger senior strategic director of the Climate Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science public safety and reality said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	This would ease an Obama era rule that was a central target in critics' accusations of a war on coal.	Environmental groups argue that in order to reduce climate change risks the world will have to stop burning coal.	Previous actions include relaxing Obama era regulations on carbon emissions and mercury emissions as well as rolling back existing regulations that govern coal ash.	False
This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements.	Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale.	It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.	The UN has since removed the claim from most of its websites.	False
Recentlyhe said that the global warming fight was in the same vein as great moral causes of humanity in the past like the Civil Rights cause of the 60s and abolition.	Gore asked.	Well arguments about science arent necessarily going to be any comfort to you and Im sorry for what youre going through Gore said.	But Im just not seeing it he said.	Gore is currently making the rounds to publicize the sequel to his global climate documentary An Inconvenient Truth.	False
The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape does not support the scenario of over exploitation.	We contest the common narrative that past human environment interactions must always be one of over exploitation and degradation.	Previous studies have put the blame for the collapse of the 'Green Sahara' onto these nomads who have often been marginalised in history but this latest studies dispels that myth.	Our study shows that increasing human population and sustainable pastoralism did not accelerateand may even have delayedthe decline of the 'Green Sahara'.	It is thought that early pastoralists in North Africa developed intricate ways to efficiently manage sparse vegetation and relatively dry and low fertility soils.	False
This is honesty sp about how Democrats would micromanage private life.	I would love to understand this logic.	Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	Right?	Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right?	False
The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request fromthe Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama era policy known as the Clean Power Plan.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Master will be working on a wide range of civil and criminal investigations and enforcement matters including public corruption complex civil litigation Eric Soufer a spokesman for Schneiderman told WSJ.	Schneidermanhas made fighting what he calls man made global warming a crucial part of his duties as New Yorkstop law office.	Schneiderman hired Howard Master a prosecutor who served under an Obama appointed U.S. attorney to focus on corruption cases involving the Trump administration.Masters primary responsibility according to Schneidermans office will be investigating and possibly prosecuting the Trump administration for possible civil rights abuses.	False
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a not for profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	Ding Dong the Witch is Dead.	They recognised us as the pre eminent organisation opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote.	Still waiting for Chris Mooney and Juliet Eilperin at the WaPo and Seth Borenstein at AP to flame out Bast writes.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	False
But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	wondered one user.	Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one.	False
She said in a statement that unlike Pruitt Wheeler understands the mission of the EPA and acts in accordance with ethical standards.	Wheelers long experience in public service demonstrates his integrity in serving EPAs mission she said.	However the policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	Environmental groups meanwhile slammed Wheeler saying that while his behavior is less cartoonish than Pruitt he supports the same policies.	During his time as acting administrator Andrew Wheeler has been seen as a thoughtful leader who understands the need for sensible environmental policies said Michelle Bloodworth the groups president and CEO.	False
Yummy or yucky?	I ask a three year old what she thinks.	What for some might be food hell has got my tastebuds jumping with curious excitement we're about to eat jellyfish.	I'm not entirely convinced.	I ask.	False
We will no longer accept this injustice.	RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday.	Now we will make our voices heard.	Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	True
Speakers included 350.org founder Bill McKibben The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones activist and Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinezand MayorDale Rossof deep red Georgetown Texas whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism.	That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require.	This is going to be the Great Society the moon shot the civil rights movement of our generation she said.	Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. who has made championing a so called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday.	Despite stark policy differences with his chief rival in the primaries former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton supported fracking and raisedtwice as much from the oil and gas industryas her Republican opponent climate change remained a policy backwater in the election.	True
Another problem which compounds the first is that they get greedy.	First they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility.	They might also think they missed a crucial plot point if the protagonists proposed a sweeping government effort to stop the meteor and then when given the opportunity to vote for it voted present in protest.	Like a high school game of telephone this quickly became a blanket statement that we have twelve years to save the planet.	They were right.	True
CPP and the other climate regulations imposed by the Obama administration were justified based on the EPAs determination carbon dioxide poses a threat to human health and the environment a concept known as the endangerment finding.	The EPAs decision was not unexpected.	Talk about all pain and no gain!	The EPA based the decision to rescind CPP on three main principles CPP is inconsistent with the 1970 Clean Air Act CPP violated states authority to decide the best mix of power generation within their borders and eroded longstanding federalstate partnerships necessary to achieve environmental improvement and enforcement of CPP would have had a devastating effect on jobs and raised energy costs for consumersall while having virtually no effect on climate change.	Withdrawing the endangerment finding would eliminate the legal justification that has been used to impose a wide range of climate regulations.	False
It adds to evidence that the Earth at that time had surface water and other conditions to support life and wasn't as hot and as inhospitable as scientists used to think said Daniele Pinti a geochemist at the University of Quebec at Montreal.	For the moment it looks very convincing he added.	The researchers write that the ratio found in one sample provides the oldest evidence for autotrophs organisms that can produce their own food either through photosynthesis or by using inorganic compounds such as sulphur in their environment.	Were there oceans?	That's uncertain Bell said.	False
Unacceptable and immoral.	We need a vision and a plan to not willful ignorance.	Ignore distort or censor.	The reports lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human caused climate change.	Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change.	False
I cannot speak to that.	Wed even settle for a coherent policy to tackle it rather than make it worse Poole told Yahoo News.	Wheres the presidents outrage about that?	We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	False
That is just completely and totally unacceptable.	There is no excuse for failure.	This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle.	The partisan nature of the debate was not lost on the audience as one attendee interrupted the proceedings to ask Where are the Republicans?	This is not a red or a blue issue he said.	False
Who knows what a frog is worth?	Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that the value of life on earth is priceless and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is too expensive to prevent extinction.	If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing.	Because who knows what a snail is worth?	If these regulations had been in place in the 1970s the bald eagle and the grey whale would be extinct today.	True
We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air land and water our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency said JP Freire an associate administrator for public affairs.	At the marquee climate protest the Peoples Climate March in Washington tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House.	Honored to join Indigenous leaders and native peoples as they fight for climate justice DiCaprio tweeted.	For instance the White House has proposed cutting funding and regulations regarding lead poisoning prevention and is considering rewriting regulations concerning smog.	False
Environmental Protection Agency chief Andrew Wheeler a former coal industry lobbyist signed a replacement rule that gives states leeway in deciding whether to require efficiency upgrades at existing coal plants.	The Trump administration on Wednesday completed one of its biggest rollbacks of environmental rules replacing a landmark Obama era effort that sought to wean the nation's electrical grid off coal fired power plants and their climate damaging pollution.	In April for the first time ever the US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal in a single month.	The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy.	In 2016 it was dethroned as the America's fuel of choice by natural gas a feat aided in part by a thriving hydro fracking industry that continues to pump abundant fossil fuels out of the Bakken Oil Shale in North Dakota.	False
The protests which have lasted for weeks have even become deadly.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Its proved time and time again to be not politically popular and we havent even priced the policy at where economists say it needs to be.	Initiative 1631 for example was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country.	RELATED Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administrations Event At UN Meeting Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy.	False
The Sludge an investigative website reported last December that ORourkes Senate campaign failed to comply with a pledge not to knowingly accept contributions of more than 200 from the oil and gas industry.	The League of Conservation Voters National Environmental Scorecard gives Cruz a lifetime rating of 4 based on his voting record in Congress ORourkes score is 95.	In 2015 ORourke twice voted to repeal the nationwide ban on exporting crude oil internationally arguing that lifting the prohibition would boost the economy and national security.	Literally the future of the world depends on us.	Hes going to have to take a pretty strong stand.	False
The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that.	This is the latest in a series of reports from the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.	Together those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions including more than 40 of methane.	The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally.	Given how much land it takes to grow food to feed livestock meat production is a leading cause of deforestation.	False
Sometimes the pot calls the kettle black.	And to me the answer is innovation.	But the question is What do we do about it about whatever risk there is?	Its one thing to be an ignorant fool but its quite something else to allow ones malicious ignorance to potentially threaten the entire planet Mann said.	We oppose all of these because they end up being cronyism.	True
As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	Among the 2020 presidential candidates Cory Booker stands out for his record of advocating for the people who bear the brunt of pollution and toxic waste.	Bookers support for nuclear power and a carbon fee has tempered any praise from the Climate Justice Alliance a network that fears these policies would hurt more than help affected communities.	Yeah its cheap because the price does not include the full cost to humanity.	False
The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor.	To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator.	These people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this timehe added referring to the Trump administration.	But the proposal to scrap the policy without any kind of replacement to curb greenhouse gases underscores the extent to which the Trump administrations refusal to acknowledge basic climate science is leaving the country vulnerable to global warming effects that are no longer theoretical.	Wildfires are raging through Californias wine country.	False
For example The Washington Posts write up of the IPCCs report focused on the mainline findings namely that the world is woefully off target to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data.	RELATED Its The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming Until The Next Chance When it comes to droughts for example the IPCC admits there is low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale.	Delegates are expected to make further commitments to implement the Paris climate accord that calls for limiting future warming below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100.	The report added that streamflow trends since 1950 are non statistically significant in most of the worlds largest rivers.	False
Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions.	In an essay in Fridays Financial Post Solomon said that most signatories are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	In the Popes written message to the meeting conveyed by the Vaticans Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world as well as his fervent desire that the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses.	Curiously neither the European Commissioner nor the Pope made any mention to the extraordinary number of deaths caused by water and air pollution preferring instead to focus on the nebulous and ideologically charged notion of anthropogenic climate change.	Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris Solomon wrote.	False
It's political and it's practical.	They need to be more thoughtful.	This really is about interaction economic development.	Jerry Brown and Lt. Gov.	And they need to be inclusive.	False
This gives you an idea of just how badly infected are the nations of the free world by the green virus.	Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public.	Here are some of the highlights Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti Christian society If science was all about consensus wed still be living in caves Greens want to make life nasty brutish and short Wheres the evidence for climate catastrophe?	We think wererational but where green policy is concerned were little better than the Aztecs Oh and by the way the way were carrying on Western Civilization is on its way out	Butyou rarely hear itsotrenchantly expressed by a former world leader as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex Prime Minister Tony Abbott in ahard hitting must read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation.	False
Like this story?	Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower.	Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State.	In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures.	Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past.	False
pic.twitter.comJhjVBr1hU3 Sam Sweeney September 23 2019 Mondays protests come on the heels of a worldwide climate strike on Friday a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the largest climate rally ever.	Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal additional measures to protect indigenous peoples land and a broad push toward climate justice.	The organizers said their goal was to shut down the center of decision making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy.	pic.twitter.comNWIO1aRvM3 Alejandro Alvarez September 23 2019 Climate activists are shutting down major intersections throughout DC.	Im in downtown DC where climate activists with Extinction Rebellion have blocked the intersection of K and 16th streets with a big sailboat that says rebel for life.	False
Like this story?	The campaign claims it merely left out the citations.	Caught in a pile of lies the campaign responded with a strikingly similar excuse To the degree it wasn't attributed it was an oversight or inadvertent Biden's 1988 campaign aide told the New York Times.	Biden's campaign waited the better part of a day to address the charges as the news spread buoyed by anger at the candidate over news he'd lied about marching in the civil rights movement finally telling Business Insider that while they had inadvertently left out several citations from the final version of the document posted to the website it had been updated to include references.	Biden's habit of plagiarism dates back to his first presidential campaign in 1988 when he lifted a popular speech from a UK politician that mischaracterized his own family background implyinghe was descended from coal miners and the first in his family to attend university.	False
None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	They can sense that we are making an impact.	So they are using several methods to mock and hate.	Something must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.	Now what does he want?	False
This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible.	The fact is it is not.	... We have to do it ourselves.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	There's no national policy to do it right now.	True
They refuse to see it accept being ignorant and continue their refusal to acknowledge that climate change is real and it will have and already has had devastating effects on the planet.	With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria it cannot be ignored any longer.	However with a Trump administration it will be if allowed.	Wehrum tried to sleazily worm his way out of answering the simple question.	The truly maddening part though is that Merkley showed the American people that its not just ignorance its intentional ignorance.	True
After Clinton clinched the nomination the issue disappeared without a single question asked during three debates between Clinton and her Republican opponent Donald Trump.	In a first Washington Gov.	Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society.	Bernie Sanders is a champion in the fight for climate justice and like him we know we need to address our emissions through action not just rhetoric Faiz Shakir Sanders campaign manager said in a statement.	In 2007 former Iowa Gov.	False
Meanwhile he doesnt want to sacrifice the economic well being of our country for something that nobody really knows.	Trump may believe in climate change now but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have a very big political agenda.	Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA said Democrats should focus on the practical and the opportunistic in the short term while working toward big picture aspirational goals in the long term.	Some might argue the concept of a long term when it comes to the environment was rendered irrelevant by the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report.	While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive he is now convinced that somethings changing and itll change back again according to aninterviewhe gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday.	False
They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson Elon Musk and Bill Gates in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton.	Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trumps decision to withdraw from the agreement.	To answer that question Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live.	Can we really be sure that these people take carbon emissions seriously?	But hold on for a minute.	False
What is doing this to us?	Why are we sick?	We are hungry Were tired and weak Our babies are sick the plants and animals complain.	asks Frannie Frog.	asks Lucy Lake.	True
So anyone who cares about extinctions and biodiversity needs to care about the future of coral reefs.	This team of researchers advocates rat eradication projects on islands throughout the world.	By killing seabirds this study revealed rats disrupt a healthy ecosystem that depends on the seabird droppings which fertilise the reefs surrounding the island.	Rats decimate seabird populations in turn decimating the volume of bird droppings a natural coral fertiliser.	The islands with no rats are full of birds they're noisy the sky is full and they smell because the guano the birds are depositing back on the island is very pungent.	False
How are animals faring in the fires?	What's the latest on the ground?	There appears to be little respite.	People who cannot defend their property from approaching fires have been told they should leave immediately.	It hasn't come close to the fatalities of 2009 when nearly 200 people died but the scale of the damage has been huge.	False
They were also used to rejecting it.	I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said.	That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	But they're not going to change many minds here.	Often they say people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to.	False
A quasi fascist policy of fear mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trumps response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos said Ashley Dawson author ofExtreme Cities The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change.	By deporting hundreds of thousands of Central Americans from the United States the administration like the Obama administration before it is bolstering gang recruitment in countries like El Salvador according to a December report from the International Crisis Group.	That worsens the violence that many cite as a main reason for fleeing northward.	Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress.	But he didnt take advantage of that opportunity.	False
What risks do protesters take?	Lecuyer stresses that non violence is part of our action consensus it is forbidden to harm the security forces site employees or to damage the equipment.	Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience especially among young people.	Tadzio Mueller a German organiser of the movement argues that massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos.	Meanwhile they plan to organise in so called affinity groups of up to 10 people of similar physical fitnessand a willingness to be arrested for trespassing and other offences.	False
University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	California Democratic Gov.	Brown is right in one sense.	Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity.	False
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a non profit promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	Ding Dong the Witch is Dead.	They recognized us as the pre eminent organization opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote.	Still waiting for Chris Mooney and Juliet Eilperin at the WaPo and Seth Borenstein at AP to flame out Bast writes.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	False
Soot pollution is deadlier and more of a health hazard than smog causingmore premature deaths and lung cancer the lung association said.	The state would be much worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants.	The bad news came fromthe American Lung Association's annual State of the Air report which covers the years 2015 2017.	About 141 million Americans live with unhealthful levels of air pollution the report says placing them at risk for premature death lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	The boom in people brings an increase in cars and trucks on the roads and many of those people live in valleys and basins right where pollution tends to settle.	True
Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health.	Its really not politically expedient to come all the way out for it he said of Steyers reticence.	Hes calculating.	Other analysts shared similar sentiments.	Steyers political action group NextGen America has not responded to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment.	False
The American political conversation about climate is indeed scary and depressing.	As the CEO of one of Americas historically coal dependent utilities Tom Fanning of the Southern Company says You cant keep waves off the beach.King Canute knew this.	Lets begin with bringing back coal.	The Nevada legislature went for 40 percent but has not yet been able to overturn a similar veto.	The world rightfully worries when they hear Donald Trump proclaim he is going to bring back coal and watch the administration and the Republican Congress try to roll back such common sense requirements limits on the wasteful flaring and leaking of methane from oil and gas fields.	False
Its a matter of survival former Kiribati President Anote Tong said after meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama that year.	Nearly 200 countries eventually signed onto the Paris climate accord.	That warning was made in 1988 amid heightened urgency about global warming.	When the United Nations met in 2015 to hash out the Paris climate accord Kiribati joined other island nations in calling for an international agreement to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	That may come as a shock in light of reports that Pacific Islanders in places like Kiribati are becoming climate refugees because of rising sea levels which many scientists blame on greenhouse gas emissions.	False
Though not surprising this is extremely troubling.	Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse.	With a history of questioning the science of climate change a close relationship with the polluter Koch brothers and lifetime LCV score of 4 Mike Pompeo has no business becoming the next secretary of state.	Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed.	He received more financial backing from Koch Industries an energy and natural resources conglomerate than any other candidate in the 2010 elections 80000.	False
I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result.	Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	A ban for California could also still be decades away from implementation and just how far out remains to be seen Nichols said.	For example California could use vehicle registration rules or control the vehicles that can access state highways she said.	The Association of Global Automakers said consumers must be able to afford the cleaner cars that California says are needed to meet its climate goals.	False
This rule supports the administrations objective of facilitating energy dominance by encouraging increased domestic oil and gas production and reducing unnecessary burdens on stakeholders while ensuring safety and environmental protection the new rule says.	Want climate news in your inbox?	The Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement which was established after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico and regulates offshore oil and gas drilling has finalized a proposal for loosening the regulations as part of President Trumps efforts to ease restrictions on fossil fuel companies and encourage domestic energy production.	The rules created potentially unduly burdensome requirements for oil and natural gas production operators on the Outer Continental Shelf without meaningfully increasing safety of the workers or protection of the environment says the new 176 page rule which is scheduled in the coming days to be published in the Federal Register before becoming the administrations final policy.	WASHINGTON The Trump administration has completed its plan to roll back major offshore drilling safety regulations that were put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster in 2010 that killed 11 people and caused the worst oil spill in American history.	False
Senator Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel said Once again President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain.	Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product.	They called the Paris agreement a start not a finish line but the best ignition switch the world could agree on to spark international cooperation on this critical issue.	Carper said Trump is abandoning tremendous economic opportunity and public health benefits.	Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world.	False
Armin Laschet the governor of Germanys most populous state North Rhine Westphalia and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkels center right Union bloc called the outcome a wake up call for politics.	The French sent us a very clear message they want environment to be at the heart of our lives at the heart of the political game and that message has been spread across Europe he said.	Whoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went onto the streets will need to deliver now said Sven Giegold a leading candidate for the German Green party that scooped up more than 20 of the vote nationwide an increase of almost 10 compared with 2014.	Across Europe this was a vote to protect the climate he said.	She attributed the result to young peoples fears about global warming.	False
Others were less accusatory.	Like this story?	Elections have consequences.	Denying science has consequences.	But Gov.	False
It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	But there are other less obvious risks.	Effects on people and the economy are considerably less dire under these scenarios than in the most severe one.	Global Change Research Program.	It's fine he told reporters at the White House although he said he doesn't believe the report's assessment that climate change will cause devastating economic impacts for the U.S.	False
Well thats up to them right?	The United States has a seat at the table.	We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that.	The head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said America has nothing to apologise for on climate change and retains a seat at the negotiating table claiming After all were the United States.	This is not a message to anyone in the world that America should be apologetic of its CO2 position.	False
Environmentalists in California are willing to let the state dictate how they cook in their own kitchens in an attempt to save the planet.	And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame its an unthinkable loss.	USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation.	Its the only thing that people ever ask about Bruce Nilles who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute a Colorado based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency said in the USA Today report.	For natural gas companies its a threat to their existence.	False
The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement.	The Paris pact aims to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2C above pre industrial levels while seeking to tighten the goal to 1.5C.	The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed.	But the report said the efficacy of measures such as planting forests bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2 were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	False
In many ways it is far worse than many had expected.	The question of unfairness cropped up again and again how the world's worst polluters China and India had no meaningful obligations placed on them by the deal.	Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called the decision one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st Century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing.	Leaders of the Nordic nations Sweden Finland Denmark Norway and Iceland also condemned the move.	Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world he tweeted.	False
When it comes to advice the agency receives the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua in which the pagans are instructed to choose this day whom you will serve either God or the gods of your fathers.	Pruitt appointed Paul Gilman as the head of the Board of Scientific Counselors.Gilman currently serves as the chief sustainability officer at the waste management and incinerator company Covanta.He has been a leading advocate for incinerating trash as a source of fuel for electricity.	For Pruitt anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down.	Wholly unaddressed by the directive is any counterpart prohibition on scientists funded by industries with conflicts of interest from serving as EPA advisors Richard Denison a lead senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund wrote in a blog post.	False
Thousands break off every year.	Mother Nature has been teasing mankind with this for a long time saying 'this is here'.	Sloane's idea might be dismissed as mere fantasy.	But the 56 year old Zambian South African has a reputation for taking on the impossible after he re floated the giant Costa Concordia cruise ship that capsized in 2012 off the Tuscan island of Giglio killing 32 people one of the world's largest and most complex maritime salvage operations.	To tackle the drought Cape Town has enacted measures ranging from building seawater desalination plants to issuing strict instructions to only flush toilets when necessary.	False
In that time the inaccessible land between the barbed wire fences has turned into a land of pristine nature and life.	Thecreationof the DMZ in 1953 marked a ceasefire in a war that divided Korea and resulted in the deaths of 2.5 million people including more than 36000 American soldiers.	The data collected in the DMZ took place from 2014 to 2017.	The NIE regularly updates Koreans about the state of nature in the DMZ through videos it posts on its social media accounts.	Previous data has been collected starting in 1974.	False
It should be one that centers on quality institutions and policies that leverage competition and consumer choice.	Unwittingly in conservatives quest for equal treatment of different energy sources they have adopted policies that reinforce governments role in dictating energy outcomes.	While the Left is happy to use regulation to promote specific forms of energy they find ideologically appealing the response from conservatives all too often has been to weakly offer the all of the above catchphrase as a counterweight.	An analysis of President Obamas environmental legacy by the American Action Forum found the negative effect of regulations on economic growth led to forgone environmental benefits richer economies tend to value clean air more and emit less relative to production and led to regulations that were about half as effective as claimed on paper.	Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles.	True
This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	In 50 years she says it's going to be very different.	We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible.	That was the Paris agreement's most ambitious target a 2 degree C rise was established as a more practical goal.	Crops like corn are now turned into ethanol but that raises food prices.	False
The decision by Khurelsukh's cabinet to distribute air purifiers is a very bad decision Davaadalai said.	Her machine which filters out toxic fumes cost her 300.	The non profit group Smog and Kids donated a South Korean made air ventilation system to a kindergarten in one of the capital's most polluted areas and the difference in air quality inside and outside the classrooms is palpable.	UNICEF reported that cases of respiratory infections have nearly tripled and pneumonia is now the second leading cause of death for children under five.	But Maria Neira the head of the WHO's public health department said the real solution to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it.	False
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	Who knows what we will find there!	There are several dangers that would face the colonists.	But what should happen after that first step?	Whenever humans leave the Earth they must take along a bubble of Earths environment which includes breathable air.	False
Other celebrities like Julia Roberts are also eco hypocrites.	Even Forbes noted DiCaprio himself is one of those big polluters which diminishes his moral authority to lecture others on reducing their own carbon emissions in March 2016.	But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	Although DiCaprio is a self proclaimed environmentalist he continued to live an incompatible lifestyle of massive carbon emissions.	All while owning multiple mansions vacationing on yachts and flying thousands of miles in private jets.	False
Our health hangs in the balance too.	Read Maryn McKennas New York Times story for more on this.	These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health.	Its not just the future of the environment thats at stake here.	The Paris agreement was no panacea but it nudged the world in the right direction.	False
Well I think that both sides have you know their own results from their studies and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science Craft said.	Asked Do you believe in climate change?	The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.	In 2016 Craft reportedly donated 265400 toward Trumps election and 17000 to the Republican National Committee.	The Trump administration released the report ahead of schedule on the Friday after Thanksgiving a move many interpreted as an attempt to bury the findings.	False
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	And what constitutes sustainable consumption and production is in the eyes of the beholding bureaucrat empowered either by the administrative regulatory state or by legislation adopted at the behest of deep pocketed special interests.	The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans.	And therein lies the problem.	For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries.	False
Recall the false promises about corn and cellulosic ethanol The Wall Street Journal editorial board wrote of the study.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	However Congress is debating whether or not to extend electric car subsidies.	California for example requires automakers to cut greenhouse gas emissions in cars by producing lower emissions vehicles or buying credits from companies like Tesla that make electric vehicles.	Its better read as a warning that new technologies arent a climate change panacea.	False
Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreements goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	We are watching with bated breath the teamwrote.	Photo John SonntagNASA via AP In the six days before President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change an enormous crack in an Antarctic ice shelf grew 11 miles according to a report by British Antarctic research group Project MIDAS.	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities.	An aerial view ofthe Antarctic Peninsulas Larsen C ice shelf.	False
Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Washington Gov.	And theres always the risk that it could devolve into rote recitals of platitudes.	That a major television network would devote so much time to a single issue is a sign of how important climate change has become for Democrats and how successful activists have been in elevating the issue.	CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy.	False
So whats the point of attacking environmentalists?	In California for example humanscaused95 percent of all wildfires with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem.	Most wildfires are caused by humans mostly unintentionally.	The former Montana congressman blamed litigation from radical environmentalists who would rather see forests and communities burn than see a logger in the woods in a USA Todayop edpublished Wednesday.	The judge sided with environmental groups and ruled renders the Project inconsistent with the desired vegetative conditions set forth in the Payette Forest Plan from 2003.	False
But it's not always been like that.	It's thought to have resulted in thousands of deaths.	So why is South Asia so much more polluted?	And the ways to protect oneself are limited.	The fight against air pollution in three global cities Why is India worse off than China?	False
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	The moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy said Toms Insua the director of the Movement.	In this new wave of ethical investing the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record.	I hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit because while this decision makes smart financial sense acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative she said.	His groundbreaking 2015 encyclicalletterLaudato Sion care for the environment was the first teaching letter of its sort in the history of the Catholic Church.	False
After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site state Representative Gerry Pollet who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest called their actions outrageous.	Its a crime.	This fee structure ignores human nature which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught.	They knew it was wrong to dump the liquids but they did it anyway.	Im convinced by looking at this that youre witnessing a criminal violation of several statues not just one.	False
Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished asking By the way did you know Im the guy who did all this?	Social media users were quick to criticize Bidens response with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didnt really work out so well.	Joe Biden has been roundly mocked on Twitter after making the unlikely claim to a young activist appealing for a presidential debate on climate change that he kicked off the whole global warming movement back in the late 1980s.	Think your friends would be interested?	A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group.	False
Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it.	This is critically important for two main reasons.	He wants to abandon the current weight of the evidence standards that allows for a wide range of evidence to be considered with credibility weighted according to the quality of study design in favor of a very narrow class of studies that employ manipulative causation methods.	Chan School of Public Health writes with researcher Gretchen Goldman in a new Science essay on the subject this loads the dice against demonstrating harms because randomized control trials are not possible or ethical when studying environmental hazards.	But most regulations that reduce carbon emissions also reduce much more localized soot and taking into account the fact that soot has a marked tendency to kill people who live nearby the emissions sources is important to making the cost benefit analysis math work.	False
We know we arent in the business of risking anyones safety.	Sometimes Mother Nature throws you a curveball!	As well as an ironic sign In other parts of the country where similar marches and rallies took place the weather was a little kinder to the liberal climate alarmist narrative.	Video showed thousands marching in the streets of Washington where former Vice President Al Gore Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Virgin Atlantic owner Richard Branson showed up to protest as well.	This weekends protests come one week after last weeks March for Science.	False
Things are better today than in March 2011.	Peter Robbins an FPL spokesman said Mayor Stoddard is wrong.	Repairs cost about 90 million.	He said he was more worried about the nuclear waste than the reactors.	Time will tell whether better proves good enough said Dave Lochbaum director of a watchdog group the nuclear safety project at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	False
The consent decrees here involve violations of federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act.	Less enforcement doesnt mean there arent a whole lot of violations that are out there said Eric Schaeffer executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush in a call with reporters.	Check out this chart The fines come from consent decrees a type of legal settlement where a party has to take a specific action but does not have to admit fault or liability.	Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	False
It's a dereliction of both her duty to this country and our duty to our planet.'	'It is what the public wants it makes economic sense and it is what the world needs in order to safeguard the lives of future generations.'	'Today China and Europe have demonstrated solidarity with future generations and responsibility for the planet' he said.	China and Europe pledged to unite to save 'Mother Earth' as others including the UK and Russia reaffirmed their commitment to the international accord.	Mr Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris agreement was met with dismay around the world yesterday.	False
This fire moved so fast I don't think anybody did anything wrong Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently.	Sometimes you do fight fire with fire.	The majority could be attributed to humans though only 8 were caused by arson.	And straying away from natural burning cycles has also contributed to the lethality of recent fires Prof Peterson says.	Damage caused by wildfires has cost 5.1bn in the last decade Verisk found.	True
at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year accusing them of failing the younger generation.	Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'	The 16 year old Swedish face of climate activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?'	The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist.	Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Nye who is well known for hosting a childrens TV show in the 1990s scolded CNNs New Day Saturday panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicistWilliam Happer.	Nye for his part has been one of the most belligerent apostle for the environmental movement.	Comedian Bill Nye accused CNN of doing a disservice to its viewers for inviting a well respected physicist on Earth Day to argue about the legitimacy of man made global warming.	Its much much less factors of two or three less.	False
Why do I believe that?	Do I think man has some impact?	WASHINGTON Michigan GOP Rep. Tim Walberg isnt concerned about the effects of climate change if it exists because God will take care of it.	No.	Yeah of course.	False
'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement.	Birth defects were also reported in a 2011 study published in Science Daily.	The Trump administration has halted a study looking at the health risks of mountaintop removal coal mining.	The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health.	False
We have no luxury to indulge selfish ignorant behaviors.	Demand to be treated like adults.	Spoiled children need discipline in order to live wholesome productive lives.	It is hard to imagine a more important priority.	Let us ask them.	False
He was asleep on the couch when a fissure opened up 2000 feet 610 meters away spewing out lava and gas.	All we could do was sit there and cry he said.	Lava flows from fissures on its flank have destroyed at least 36 homes and other buildings and caused the evacuation of some 2000 residents.	He tried to reach his house on Tuesday but he and his neighbors were blocked by a 20 foot tall 6 meter tall wall of lava.	Kilauea has been in a state of nearly constant eruption for 35 years.	False
We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	Personally I buy recycled toilet paper because we can and it's good for the Earth said Andrew Musgrave director of Catholic Social Action at the Archdiocese of Cincinnati and one of the 150 signatories to the letter sent to PG.	It's just unacceptable that a company like PG is making toilet paper a product that is used for seconds and flushed from virgin pulp said Shelley Vinyard boreal corporate campaign manager for the Natural Resources Defense Council and one of several dozen protesters at PG's annual shareholders meeting in Cincinnati Ohio on Tuesday.	When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	Musgrave said he learned about the issue of deforestation for toilet paper relatively recently through a member of the congregation and that it was a natural fit with church teachings on preserving the environment.	False
This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	There are factors and factors and factors.	And those two things are kind of in conflict.	So when you go to Texas or you go to Iowa you're generally just negotiating with a landowner whether it's a farmer whomever says Beggar.	The formula here has worked residents in Wyoming enjoy among the highest per capita GDP in the nation.	False
The Organisation for Economic Co operation and Development OECD compared data on concentrations of pharmaceutical residue in water samples worldwide as well as prescribing trends and water purification regulations in various countries.	Many medicines are simply discarded in the United States alone an estimated one third of the four billion drugs prescribed each year ends up as waste.	Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate related disease.	When animals and humans ingest medicines up to 90 percent of active ingredients are excreted back into the environment.	In Britain alone ethinyloestradiol diclofenac ibuprofen propranolol and antibiotics are now present in the run off of 890 wastewater treatment plants at high enough levels to cause adverse environmental effects according to another study.	False
This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	There was no indication how Trumps new Supreme Court appointee conservative Brett Kavanaugh voted on the issue.	Circuit Court of Appeals.	Conservative Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch indicated they would have granted the administrations request.	False
Rob Bishop the top Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee said on the House floor before the vote.	The 363 62 vote to pass theNatural Resources Management Act came two weeks after the Senate approved the bill 92 8.	But it also enjoyed larger buy in.	Related Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect The very basis of all of the bills that are in here is to put people above government Utah Rep.	Democratsgot behind the bill because it would expand environmental protections.	False
And so for us to be the exception on this issue is holding the world back.	We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world.	U.S.	When the Paris Agreement was being negotiated the U.S. delegation pushed for more transparency and accountability to make sure the countries that signed on would actually do what they promised.	The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil.	False
On one side of that debate is a theological argument thats gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade.	As a Christian I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible James Wanliss an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author ofThe Green Dragon Is Global Warming a Religion?	As a Christian thats a problem to me because well aside from the philosophy behind those systems its just again empirically been disastrous.	The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	Hes written poems lamenting legal abortion.	False
Regardless of why you're doing it what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you.	We could tie this to climate change or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money.	Instead they both said the focus should be on resiliency.	I don't know if there's an operating definition of what resilience means he said.	Resilience came into our nomenclature in our last administration but that doesn't mean that it's a verboten word any longer said Brian Sullivan a HUD spokesman.	True
That 2017 study published in the journal Science was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer respectively.	Steyer who co founded Next Generation gave roughly 58.7 million to liberal SuperPACs according to CRP.	Andrew Light a distinguished senior fellow at the World Resources Institute and reviewer of the chapter highlighting the Bloomberg Steyer funded study did not respond to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment.	Its a top line finding of a major government climate report but its based on a study funded by groups affiliated with two major Democratic donors.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	False
But he doesnt care because in his mind its real.	How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy.	The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy.	Its embarrassing.	How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?	False
The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities Easterling said.	The federally mandated study was supposed to come out in December but was released by the Trump administration on Friday at a time when many Americans are on a long holiday weekend distracted by family and shopping.	We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered but believed and acted upon.	What can be done The report was created to inform policy makers and makes no specific recommendations on how to remedy the problem.	Almost half that rise has been since 1993 a rate of rise greater than during any century in the past 2800 years.	False
The purpose of this rule was breathtaking.	The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years.	Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP industry lawsuit against it.	Remember what Hillary Clinton said?	This was a part of Obamas pen and phone way of ruling the country.	False
We cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisianas Cancer AlleyHarris said in a statement.	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	Mustafa Ali the former head of the EPA environmental justice office noted that the idea of scoring environmental justice impacts is something advocates have pushed for years.	Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant because it helps put up a wall of protections around those communitiesaddingI think its just now starting to gather steam.	This systemic environmental injustice will only get worse and become more ingrained if climate and environmental policies like the Green New Deal do not specifically focus on lifting up these communities.	False
Spewing.	Right?	You know we have a world right?	You talk about the carbon footprint fumes are spewing into the air.	Interior Department spokesman Nicholas Goodwin said in a statement that the government needed to make sure the project was safe and environmentally responsible.	False
The study has been published in the journal Nature.	All measures combined can result in keeping healthy both planet and people.	The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together.	So when it comes to climate change the authors looked at what they called a flexitarian diet.	We looked at improving agricultural yields in particular of more health sensitive crops like fruit vegetables and legumes said Dr Springmann.	False
On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	This is the war we are facing.	It is an international crisis.	Maybe I am not affirming it these NGOs are carrying out some criminal actions to draw attention against me against the government of Brazil.	The decisions and statements from Brazil these recent weeks show clearly that President Bolsonaro has decided to not respect his commitments on the climate nor to involve himself on the issue of biodiversity the spokesperson said.	False
Instead of focusing on the apprehensionand divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters its more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together tohelp one another.	In a hyper political environment pro climate change and anti climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters and the implementation ofstandardized response to these crises.	While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies its more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric whichonly serves to encourage people throughanxiety and panic.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season as well asthe most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria which was said to cripple Dominica with widespread devastation en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States its important to maintainlevelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speakingtruth amidstapprehension.	Man made warming did not cause Harvey and Irma Loris wrote.	False
No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	I mean you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you cant even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards?	And we all kinda see what is happening here if they cant do it now then why would we believe that they would be carbon free after they force all of us to live in backwards slums?	Greta Thunberg tried really hard to keep her zero emissions promise but it has collapsed like all hypocritical left wing plans because it was just too difficult.	From the Hill Greta Thunbergs plan for carbon free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up.	False
A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country.	And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	Bolsonaro approved the involvement of the military to help put out fires in a televised speech Friday in which he claimed his government would have zero tolerance for environmental crimes.	Protecting the rain forest is our duty he said.	Much of the attention has focused on Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a long time critic of the countrys environmental regulations who had tried to minimize the effects of the fires.	True
Employees wanting medical or religious exceptions can hash those out witha company policy team.	New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact even more than switching to a hybrid carWeWork co founder MiguelMcKelvey said in an email to staffers.	The companyestimates its no meat policy will save15507103 animals by 2023 according to Business Insider along with16.6 billion gallons of water and445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide theheat trapping gas that alters Earth's climate.	The global workplace startup told employees this week that the company will ban employees from expensing meals that contain red meat pork or poultryBloomberg reported.	WeWork confirmed the policy change to both news outlets.	False
They also ignore the question as to why theres not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction she added.	David Keith a solar geoengineering GE expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	Our work is to inform better choices and it would actually be very useful to know for sure it didnt work.	But scientists such as Keith and Mark Lawrence scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies IASS in Potsdam argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less almost impossible to achieve the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster.	That would break the slow moving agreement among many environmental groups that sound research in this field makes sense Keith said on the sidelines of the Climate Engineering Conference CEC in Berlin.	False
On a broader note Im confused.	But making sense isnt a tenant of the climate religion.	No not really.	In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement.	Weird how everything just so happens to reinforce her political narrative and now shes back with another hot take.	False
This report is striking for two reasons.	That view was echoed by Abigail Dillen president of environmental group Earthjustice.	And secondly it majors on the economic impact in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation.	Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action.	First it is not abstract.	False
We want to be there we want to be providing solutions for the world.	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come.	We know where were going.	Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his climate change minister Catherine McKenna are both disappointed over President Donald Trumps decision to break with the Paris climate accord.	Despite the lofty objectives when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers.	False
In a separate legal fight over coal ash the Tennessee Valley Authority the nations biggest public utility last month appealed a federal judges order to clean up decades of coal ash environmentalists say poisoned water in the Volunteer State.	Pat McCrory R signed a bill that dramatically watered down legislation forcing Duke to clean up its coal ash pits without requiring the company to excavate the waste or provide clean water to residents near the pond.	Children are particularly at risk of learning disabilities birth defects asthma and cancer with 1.54 million living near such storage sites according to EPA data cited by the Sierra Club.	In 2016 then Gov.	This is the second biggest toxic pollution threat in our country and we need to clean it up not make things easier for polluters Earthjustice attorney Lisa Evans said in a statement.	False
What have we done?	Kiddo I want you to just take a look.	Ive never walked away from that.	And the fact of the matter is that what we talk about is what are we going to do about those corporations?	How can we trust that youre going to act on climate on the climate crisis if youre still attending fundraisers that fossil fuel executives are attending?	False
We are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party OBrien said in the Reuters article.	The key here is the dividend back to the people former Sen. Trent Lott R MS who supports the young group told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	Its not sustainable for Republicans through the leadership to say We just dont want to talk about this' Lott said.	The Thomson Reuters Foundation reported on the campaign which runs counter to the stance of the Republican Party and President Donald Trump that the issue is more about globalization than saving the planet Drawn from Republican groups on more than two dozen university campuses the Young Conservatives for Carbon Dividends called for laws to tax oil natural gas and coal producers of planet warming greenhouse gases.	We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit and we need climate policy that reflects that said Kiera OBrien 21 a senior at Harvard University who co founded the group.	False
Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	And I think for younger people looking at this are more like how are we saying lets take it easy when 3000 Americans died last year how are we saying lets take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system?	The New Deal.	Thats the line activists and many politicians have taken up in the months since the IPCCs report.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
Over and over again the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well being of everyday Americans said Eric Schneiderman New Yorks attorney general.	They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law.	Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court.	Many of these legal problems have stemmed from the sheer pace of the rollbacks required public comment periods have been set aside in some cases any rationale for repeal or delay has been missing in others.	They are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who dont want to follow the rules said Aaron Colangelo the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council.	False
We want to embrace better stewardship.	Theres peace time and theres global nuclear combat.	The facts of the matter is observable data climate change is more toward the peace time he added comparing the document to international relations.	Youve gotten a lot better.	We want to embrace reliability.	False
This is a fudged statistic however.	Wheelers climate denial received some backup at Wednesdays hearing.	It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPAs 15th administrator.	In October the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change.	He repeatedly misrepresented his own agencys findings about a rule to gut an Obama era power plant regulation inflating the emissions cuts the new proposal would mandate.	False
They're preaching fear.	My personal views are irrelevant in this context.	No wonder the environmental message has became the cause of choice for the elitists of Hollywood.	The source illegal immigrants.	And that's what they're preaching.	False
He is hurting them.	In an interview on MSNBC on Thursday former Secretary of State John Kerry said President Donald Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Accord puts America last is shameful and will hurt kids by worsening their asthma.	You have this disconnect.	Should more plants and food for people and animals really be demonized?	It is a shameful moment for the United States to have unilaterally walked away from an agreement which did not have one other country requiring us to do something Kerry told Andrea Mitchell.	False
Somewhere somehow the vile stuff gets out and when it does it causes untold damage to the environment.	In doing so they reveal their own selective adherence to scientific reason.	These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry.	But just as with the recent Dakota Access Pipeline spill the reality is less convenient for their political preferences.	The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work.	False
WRI leadership regularly interacts with senior Chinese government and Communist party officials and provides public support for Chinese environmental programs Bishop and Westerman wrote.While WRI criticizes policies of the U.S. government WRI is silent on Chinese human rights violations such as arrests of environmental protesters and the mass detention of ethnic minorities.	WRIs desire to maintain access to Chinese officials may influence its political activities in the United States Republican Reps.	On important issues for Chinese leadership WRIs position appears to closely reflect Chinas goals and objectives the two lawmakers added.	Bishop and Westerman said NRDC and WRI activities mirror those laid out in reports on Chinas vast influence machine which it uses to shape its global image including on environmental issues.	WRI opposed President Donald Trumps decision to leave the Paris accord in 2017 in a statement that also praised China for committing to the climate agreement.	False
But that has changed.	So that was the motivation for originally setting up the project.	That's an important distinction because it means it's insulated from changes in the ocean's temperature.	And many of those papers showed different results.	This assessment conducted by 84 scientists from 44 international organizations is known as the Ice Sheet Mass Balance Inter comparison Exercise IMBIE.	False
RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed.	North Carolina Democratic Gov.	Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings.	A strong clean energy economy combats climate change while creating good jobs and a healthy environment said Cooper.	For example the Obama administrations pledge to cut U.S. emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 was only projected toavert 0.001 degrees Celsius of projected global warminga year.	False
In the late 1990sa crusading attorneysued E.I.	du Pont de Nemours and Co. over a massive contamination in Parkersburg West Virginia that killed livestock and sickened and deformed many residents in the rural Appalachian community that surrounded the chemical companys plant.	There is enough data to take action.	Last May the EPA hosted anational leadership summiton PFAS but the agencys decision to bar reporters from attending sessions and one officials manhandling of an Associated Press reporter overshadowed the event.	Later that month the White House and EPA moved to suppress an Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry report that found PFAS pose health risks at 70 parts per trillion.	False
Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category.	According to the poll which has a 3.4 margin of error 67 of Democrats 54 of independents and 33 of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Coxs views on environmental issues will impact how they vote.	every single time weve covered its been a palpable ratings killer.	so the incentives are not great.	Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News.	False
All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems.	That's almost half of the world population.	The warning will come from the awkwardly named IPBES the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans.	Soil expert Prof Jane Rickson from Cranfield University UK added The thin layer of soil covering the Earth's surface represents the difference between survival and extinction for most terrestrial life.	False
To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN.	Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNN in an interview about Hurricane Irma on Thursday that the time to talk about climate change isn't now saying the question was insensitive.	Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm Duke responded I you know the data I don't know what it particularly indicates.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget said climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	False
A value added tax which is widely used around the world is consumption based.	The carbon tax would appear to clash with the priorities Trump has sought so far in his administration.	The White House on Tuesday denied that it is currently considering two controversial provisions to raise revenue as part of its broad tax overhaul.	The White House did not immediately respond to CNBC's request to comment.	Republicans have turned their attention to an overhaul of the U.S. tax system a key campaign goal after their first attempt to replace the Affordable Care Act failed.	False
Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that.	In my mind it's the right thing to do and we need to make it cool he said.	In September's edition of Vogue edited by Meghan the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature saying We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us and only us.	The duke said that what is important is what we do to balance out negative effects.	At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	False
Given its clear violation of the Clean Air Act I intend to sue the EPA over this Dirty Power rule and look forward to collaborating with other states and cities in taking action to protect all Americans from the increasingly disastrous impacts of climate change James said in a statement.	At a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing last week about the direction of the EPA former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy who finalized the Clean Power Plan under Obama said she believes the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule as well as other proposed rules the agency has made since Trump took office undermines the science and the law in how they're trying to roll back those rules.	We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday.	They are trying to inflate the cost and lower the benefits in order to justify rules that simply don't make sense under the law.	Unlike the CPP the ACE rule adheres to the four corners of the Clean Air Act.	False
Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor at Large at Breitbart News.	The mayor said he had challenged the citys Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer Instead of saying all the reasons why not get to a reason as to why.	It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	He made the decision despite the fact that top staffers have argued in recent months that the gas plants are critical to keeping the lights on in the city theTimes noted.	He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship.	False
A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	The green dream or whatever they call it nobody knows what it is but they're for it right?	The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates.	Small incremental policy solutions are not enough.	In a statement to CBS News on Tuesday Congressman Ral Grijalva Democrat of Arizona confirmed that he will be supporting the resolution after initially being reluctant to back it.	False
On Wednesday conservatives leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans Stalinism or genocide.	Weve now seen the whites of its eyes.	For years positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other.	We have this idea that left ideas are moving and shaking inside the political atmosphere right now.	That same week Rep. Matt Gaetz R Fla. a loyal Trump ally drafted a nonbinding resolution staking out a Green Real Deal that would acknowledge the threat climate change poses to human health and safety in communities across the United States.	False
We dont have a social mission other than transparency and fact checking.	Were not going to win the internet by going out and saying everybody is doing it wrong its just a pricing story.	He admitted in a media environment that rewards sensationalism and factual manipulation the approach may seem a bit bland.	Comparing what people say to data then stepping out of the room is sort of the best thing journalists can do Roston said.	You dont go through the quarterly quarterly results from Coke Levis or anyone else and not come away thinking that they dont have concerns over limited resources like water.	False
14.	13.	5.	8.	Jerry Brown.	False
Its a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU.	Poorer countries are less likely to act when they think theyre unfairly bearing the burden of a problem kickstarted by Western industrial development.	Its a fundamental threat to progress against climate change and thus the entirety of the human race.	But the stakes are even bigger than they appear at first glance Its not just the survival of Western democracy thats at stake but the planet itself.	Its especially important that wealthy countries take the lead on the issue.	False
Rose Strauss apparently isnt showing favoritism in the race for Pennsylvania governor at least when it comes to asking candidates about climate change.	He has shown support for the young and naive voters Strauss told the paper adding that while Wolf has supported us verbally the governor hasnt committed to action on things we care about like climate change.	Wolfs campaign declined to say if hell meet with Strauss and other activists but offered the following statement to the Daily Record Governor Wolf is committed to protecting and preserving the environment.	You know humans have warm bodies.	This bipartisan agreement modernizes and strengthens environmental protections at oil and gas sites in Pennsylvania.	True
Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	And perhaps even eventually render Trumps Southern White House uninhabitable.	So what would a 10 foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida?	False
Shes right.	An activist from the Sunrise Movement a liberal environmental group asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking.	He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying Thats the environmental injustice of racism that were dealing with.	Mr. Castro won some of his strongest applause when he leaned into his rsum as the nations housing chief and connected his work with the need to protect low income communities from environmental damages.	Still Mr. Castro said its actually what comes next that is most important saying he would impose a fee on carbon pollution enact an executive order prohibiting fossil fuel exploration and development on public lands and spend 10 trillion over 10 years to reach net zero emissions by 2045.	False
Pera Markovic a lawyer with Cekor an environmental group is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area.	You cannot be a world leader in curbing air pollution and at the same time the world's biggest financier of overseas coal power plants the group's energy coordinator Ioana Ciuta told the BBC.	EPS says it is spending hundreds of millions of euros on environmental protection but its track record clearly does not inspire trust.	That's likely to be the same in many other countries too whatever climate scientists say is needed.	For how long?	False
However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong.	Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday.	We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added.	Meanwhile as the West looks at options to combat climate change we all know that Chinas global emissions continue to rise.	Several climate change activists in D.C. decried the U.S. for its role in contributing to climate change despite the fact that the U.S. has made great strides in reducing its carbon output seeing the largest decline in CO2 emissions in the world for 9th time this century in 2017.	False
The declarations signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day.	Climate science should be less political while climate policies should be more scientific the declaration stated.	Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation.	Late last month a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a European Climate Declaration to the Secretary General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change.	Therefore there is no cause for panic and alarm they noted.	True
That's just common sense.	Are we part of the reason?	Where have you been?	I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here.	Common sense tells you bring the cleaner burning fuels bring the things that bring the emissions down.	False
Climate is your closet wardrobe.	Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity.	The other side of her thinks were foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years.	Its just the weather in D.C.	The climate crisis is real yall Ocasio said on Instagram.	False
We have to think about the whole world.	You know what they tell me?	Because weve got to be working on all fronts.	And so what do they do?	So heres what really scares me.	False
This is about social disruption Shepard said.	This is our issue Beverly said.	Were hit first and hit worst.	Theres no question that this is a topic area that black politicians including the CBC Congressional Black Caucus have not focused on as much Thomas A. LaVeist dean of Tulane Universitys School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine said in an interview.	The article also quoted Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D NY about her Green New Deal resolution that puts social justice even above climate change.	False
Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?	We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said.	economy thefossil fuel industry runs thiseconomy it'screated all of thiswealth revolutionizedtransportation communications industry lifted people out of poverty Watters said.	Watters asked.	OCASIO CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition I'm always going to choose the people of this country.	False
But we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good.	It is good economics.	The views are their own.	Policies work best when they are narrowly tailored to the behavior that they seek to alter.	Thus if we want markets to produce more clean innovation we should reward innovators rather than penalize polluters in the hopes that doing so will indirectly induce them to produce innovation.	False
They reflect profound failure to honour collective global commitment to protect the most vulnerable.	More than half of these are believed to be children.	But we also refuse to die.	With our very existence at stake COP 25 must demonstrate unprecedented ambition to avert ecocide.	In the midst of a climate emergency retreat and inaction are tantamount to sanctioning ecocide.	False
have adopted almost precisely as I proposed it in 2008.	Thats why I object to the Democrats as much as to the Republicans.	In February a group of high profile Republicans announced their support for a plan that would tax carbon dioxide emissions in order to slow global warming which they believe to be caused by humans.	If its a tax taken by the government it makes the government bigger and it depresses the economy.	suggest 55 per ton yields a dividend of 1000 per legal resident and 3000 for a family with two or more children with one half share for each child a maximum of two half shares per family.	False
Were bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death 17 year old organizer Maddie Graham said.	We need systemic change.	Im standing with the young activists on todaystay strong in this fight!	Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate crisis on the biggest shopping day of the year disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago Illinois and holding a Black Friday Funeral For Future in the nations capital Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts.	Think about that three things 70 percent reduction she added.	False
I cant believe they are putting profits over the planet and profits over people.	After the protesters were led away by security guards Griffiths said In the US our policy is not to keep it in the ground but to use it as cleanly and efficiently as possible.	A Trump administration presentation extolling the virtues of fossil fuels at the UN climate talks in Poland has been met with guffaws of laughter and chants of Shame on you.	They talk about the life cycle of coal I talk about it as a death march.	There is no such thing as clean coal.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Most Republicans dont buy into a carbon tax.	But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors.	President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate.	Trump also ordered the Environmental Protection Agency EPA to review and possibly rescind the Clean Power Plan the cornerstone of the former administrations global warming agenda.	False
But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red versus blue divide.	'Not the cause of it but the things that we observe.'	'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced' Pruitt said.	When Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked about a link Monday she touted the country's environmental record and moved on.	'I'm not sure specifically on the Paris climate deal but as he said at the time the goal is to always do the very best when taking care of the environment and taking proper steps' Huckabee Sanders replied.	False
In West Virginia coal is popular and politicians who support coal get elected.	Our politicians are beholden to coal.	Vivian Stockman of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition was protesting outside Trumps rally.	Our state is beholden to coal.	An analysis done by his own Environmental Protection Agency EPA concludes that the rollback of Obama era pollution controls will lead to many more people dying and suffering health problems that they otherwise would not have.	False
As we use and reuse things it gives us some social engagement status.	But in the booming city of Rio de Janeiro a luxury hotel has been turning trash into treasure for more than a decade long before food waste was at the forefront of anyone's mind.	It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains.	For many hotels simple knowledge of the issue has resulted in greater observance from staff and ultimately less waste.	I think part of the benefit of a detailed audit like this is that it increases everyone's mindfulness about what they are doing with food says Gordon Jackson the manager of the resort's Waste to Wealth initiative.	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi.	The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	False
I understand the value of aspirational goals Bledsoesaid.	My personal view is that undermines the credibility of the effort.	Speaking at an eventcommemoratingMartin Luther King Day that monthOcasio Cortez asserted thatclimate change constituted our World War II and added Millennials and people you know Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and were like The world is gonna end in 12 years if we dont address climate change and your biggest issue is how are we gonna pay for it?'	In January White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders derided Ocasio Cortez'srecent claim that theworld will end in 12 yearsdue to climate change andsuggested the Trump administration has little need for the progressive firebrand'sthoughts in general.	And Paul Bledsoe a strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute said progressives were overcompensating.	True
That was the right thing to do.	The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat.	This president has tremendous courage Pruitt said Monday.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	HAZARD Ky. AP A coalition of left leaning states and environmental groups are vowing to fight the Trump administration's move to kill an Obama era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal fired power plants.	False
Bernhardt stressed as he has before that he takes ethics extremely seriously is working to improve the agencys ethics program and is confident that he has complied with all rules and will be cleared at the end of the investigation.	But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials.	If you have a view on what you want to happen well carry it out when you execute it.	That is my position.	Interiors internal watchdog recently opened two ethics probes the first of them just four days into Bernhardts tenure intomultiple high ranking interior officials including the secretary.	False
That's a false choice and it's one that you've talked about Mr. President.	You know for too long there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change.	Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers the letter added.	Those standards were designed to make cars more fuel efficient and reduce pollution.	When President George W. Bush challenged California's greenhouse gas emissions and mileage setting ability California fought it in the courts.	True
The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	So how do climate activists get their way?	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics.	False
To not say anything about it is just ignorance and its irresponsible.	It was something that was going to happen when peoples grandchildren were alive.	And that has changed Graumlich said.	Lisa Graumlich the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal.	Even the Democratic rebuttal to Trumps speech by the ex Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams only mentioned climate change once in a list of priorities the US could pursue.	False
It is hypocritical said Andrew Rosenberg director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	Instead there is an administration wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether.	You can't make something not real if you just don't talk about it.	Washington CNN President Donald Trump spent an hour Thursday talking about his commitment to economic growth and national stability as he announced the decision to back out of the Paris Climate Accord.	Former deputy EPA administrator under President Barack Obama Bob Perciasepe said the Trump administration's avoidance of the term just makes them seem out of touch with reality.	False
With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	Forget the Golden State.	The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016.	Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	SinceCalifornia is known for its strict environmental regulations why are so many cities from the state typically on this list?It's because the state would be far worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants.	False
Diversity takes millions of years to evolve but can be damaged in the blink of an eye.	Co author Sammy de Grave head of research at the Oxford University Museum added The study was published in the journal Communications Biology.	Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda.	Professor of Evolutionary Paleobiology Matthew Wills at the Milner Centre for Evolution at the University of Bath said We are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of a magnitude unparalleled since the asteroid impact that wiped out the dinosaurs.	Humans are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of species not seen since the demise of the dinosaurs British scientists warned.	False
The White House has sought to stave off any discord by arguing that the order is not meant to take power away from the states but to ensure that state actions follow the intent of the Clean Water Act.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Trump's developing an addiction to executive orders that rubberstamp these climate killing projects said Brett Hartl government affairs director at the center.	Environmental groups described Trump's order as an effort to short circuit a state's ability to review complicated projects putting at risk a state's ability to protect drinking water supplies and wildlife.	The groups said in an April 5 letter that individual states shouldn't be able to use provisions of the Clear Air Act to dictate national policy thereby harming other states and the national interest and damaging cooperative federalism.	False
And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said .	CNN Republican Florida Gov.	We're going to do what works.	My environmental policy is just to do things that benefit Floridians.	We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	False
When the threat arose yesterday people were still doing their activities on the beach and did not immediately run and they became victims he told a news briefing.	A 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque among the buildings damaged.	Indonesia's meteorological agency has been criticised for its response but officials said the waves struck while the warning was in place.	False
The decision stems from an environmental lawsuit.	WildEarth Guardians Physicians for Social Responsibility and the Western Environmental Law Center sued the BLM in 2016 for failing to calculate and limit the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from future oil and gas projects.	The decision is the first significant check on the climate impact of the Trump administrations energy first agenda that has opened up vast swaths of public land for mining and drilling.	Every acre of our public land sold to the oil and gas industry is another blow to the climate making this ruling a powerful reality check on the Trump administration and a potent tool for reining in climate pollution.	Kathleen Sgamma its president told the Washington Post This judge has ignored decades of legal precedent in this ruling.	False
They say the president favours development over conservation.	But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	Over the past decade previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines.	Mr Bolsonaro who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed has not commented on the latest data.	False
Theres rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office.	Zinke is one the most ethically challenged members of the Cabinet and maybe one of the most ethically challenged secretaries of the Interior weve had in living memory Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA who could chair the House Oversight Government Operations Subcommittee if Democrats win in November told Politico this week.	However environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement.	This means conservation preserving culture and facilitating recreation.	We should be in the business of being a partner.	False
If you think of Bernie youd think hed be talking about inequality or civil rights.	Activists freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of Californias deadliest wildfire seem primed for action and the partys progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue thats remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade.	Rising temperatures ranked 15th of 28 issues voters ranked in the questionnaire.	Theres a whole host of progressive issues yet this is the one hes leading with.	Seventy one percent of major televised debates in the 2018 midterm elections ignored the issue completely.	False
This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems.	This isnt something in the future Ross says.	Though not an extensive conversation that was still more time spent talkingabout climate change than in all of threedebates combined between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in 2016.	False
Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the worlds largest carbon emitter China is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal fired power plant online every 10 days.	We even turn a blind eye to the fact that China lied about its carbon emissions when it first came to the table with its pledge last year.	They rely for so much and we would be giving them so little.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In his statement Monday however Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally.	GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS' Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions Sen. Jim Inhofe R Okla. said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016.	False
And the question I have is what if youre wrong?	Whether or not thats actually true remains to be seen.	Featured image is a screenshot from the video.	Watch the interview below via YouTube.	He then quickly moved on to accusing President Obama of reimagining authority with his clean power plan and praised Trumps recent executive order undoing environmental regulations that Obama put in place.	False
She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing.	Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security.	The resolution does not include a price tag but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars.	A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday the day they introduce the resolution.	Trump who has expressed doubts about climate change also is likely to oppose it.	False
I'm just not seeing it.	Arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be of any comfort to you Gore said.	But Gore's and Ivanka's influence clearly was not enough.	...	We have the ability to prevent even worse sea level rise and and even worse catastrophes that are also caused by the climate crisis Gore said.	False
Lawyers for Our Children's Trust have argued that government policies have deprived the children of their constitutional rights to life liberty and propertyto dignity to personal security to a stable climate system capable of sustaining human lives and liberties.	Whether those claims should be handled in court presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion the court said then.	WASHINGTON The Supreme Court refused the Trump administration's request Friday to block21 young people from putting a warming planet on trial in Eugene Ore. Theaction keeps alive at least for nowanunusual lawsuit begun in 2015 to force a change in federal environmental policyby declaring a climate systemcapable of sustaining human life a civil right.The lawsuit was broughton behalf of children now ages 11 22as well as future generations.	Legal whiz kid or partisan hack?	More Who is the real Brett Kavanaugh?	False
Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	Its now or never.	Inslee urged Congress and the US Department of Transportation to implement even tougher regulations including lower speed limits for high hazard flammable trains and to use safer cars that are strong enough to protect volatile contents from the heat of a fire or the impact of a collision.	While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude by rail they have taken few steps toward increasing safety Inslee wrote in an op ed for the Columbian last year.	Were up against the wire and nobody no politician no agency no industry is stepping up to resolve the climate crisis Mike one of the protesters locked to a flower pot said in a statement.	False
The entire report can be viewed at	The studies clash with policy under President Donald Trump who has been rolling back Obama era environmental and climate protections to maximize production of domestic fossil fuels including crude oil already the highest in the world above Saudi Arabia and Russia.	The report the Fourth National Climate Assessment Volume II supplements a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming and which warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet.	The Congressionally mandated report written with the help of more than a dozen U.S. government agencies and departments outlined the projected impacts of global warming in every corner of American society in a dire warning at odds with the Trump administrations pro fossil fuels agenda.	It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor broadly undermine human health damage infrastructure limit the availability of water alter coastlines and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others.	The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals?	Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more.	Certainly environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of peoples diets in the name of the climate but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health.	False
Its not just rhetoric.	Now it looks like were condemned to repeat it.	Thats despite the fact that the 38 page document projects more frequent and more expensive disasters.	President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases the Clean Power Plan.	The damages from the hurricanes heat waves wildfires and tornadoes in 2017 cost at least 306 billion.	False
And I think that we're very far from doing that.	Neither alone is going to get it done.	I talk to our kids and young people all the time and they are more environmentally sensitive they're more pro alternative energy they get the natural gas thing instead of coal.	And Rooney said the intransigence most of his fellow Republicans including President Trumpdisplay on the issue is harmful to the GOP brand and could come back to haunt them in 2020.	That is rapidly changing how Americans think about it David Doniger with the Natural Resources Defense Council wrote in a recent blog.	False
ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval.	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	It recommends that the world cut emissions to a net zero by the year 2050 to hold back global heating.	According to the ETC website the groups goal is to accelerate change towards low carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius.	The group is made up of energy company executives activists investment bankers Al Gore and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of funds the Daily Caller reports.	False
I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	Steyer then claimed he had previously taken on oil companies and beaten them on environmental laws and pushed clean energy across this country.	Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate crisis America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles California.	False
Its not just the future of the planet thats at stake here.	For the White House bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters.	Health isnt a big part of the conversation about Trump administration assault on climate change mitigation policies but it needs to be.	The public health community should be there too.	But whats largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact peoples health.	False
In June three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800000 people.	In July the Federal Reserve fined the firm 246 million for its unsafe and unsound practices in foreign currency trading division failing to crack down on employees who violated rules on sharing information with competitors.	In 2015 the company was ordered to pay 8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan Cuba and Iran.	For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing an aggressive climate policy makes business sense.	The rules also apply to tar sands considered one of the dirtiest sources of oil.	False
California Gov.	As president I have one obligation and that obligation is to the Americanpeople Trump said during a speech in theRose Garden announcingthe decision.	The internationalagreement which was signed in 2015 and went into effect seven months ago is considered a major part theenvironmental legacy of the Obama administration.	Michael A. Needham chief executive officer of the conservative Heritage Action for America applauded the president's move.	Jerry Brown said he hopes Trump's insane move to back out of the Paris accord will spur others to action.	False
Sandwiched between much of our entertainment are messages that perpetuate liberal themes The military is bloodthirsty radical Muslims must be handled with kid gloves trial lawyers and climate change activists are crusading heroes and above all corporations are evil.	When they are not being greedy or trying to dominate the world they are responsible for polluting the planet.	No one doubts that there was real liability in the case but Dark Waters is a conspiracy horror movie that ignores facts to shake up its audience.	But popular culture whether it be books TV film music or video games remain dominated by the Left.	Narratives like the ones above dont get turned into stories by accident.	False
The decision was praised by industry officials who had called on Pruitt to revisit the rules but environmental groups said he was caving to special interests in the coal industry.	The weakening of automobile standards which is a win for car manufacturers and a blow to environmentalists also sets up a fight between the Trump administration and the state of California which says it plans to stick with the stricter rules.	Pushing to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord Pruitt pushed the White House to leave the Paris climate deal stood beside the President in the Rose Garden when he announced the decision and after the President spoke offered his own remarks.	The move was condemned by global leaders and was seen by many as a setback to efforts to address global warming.	Critics said the rule was overly broad in classifying waterways that are subject to federal rules while supporters see it as a necessary protection for example preventing fertilizer runoff from tainting streams and drinking water.	False
Its the right thing to do.	One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use.	He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation.	I reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon he said.	Its the best way to send a pricing signal.	False
The president's statement focused on the beauty of nature and the importance of preserving it for future generations.	Jobs matter!'	In a flurry of other tweets he criticized President Obama for prioritizing the environment over other issues such as 'ISIS and Ebola.'	He said in the second paragraph 'economic growth enhances environmental protection.'	On Earth Day thousands of scientists students and research advocatesmarched around the world in protest of Trump's research budget cuts.	False
for failing to properly control methane pollution a greenhouse gas.	In 2016 Mr. Schneiderman and the Securities and Exchange Commission announced a 154 million settlement with Barclays and Credit Suisse to resolve allegations that the banks had permitted traders to misuse their dark pool platforms.	Mr. Schneidermans big accomplishment in going after Wall Street were the billions of dollars in penalties that he helped secure from big banks that had sold flawed mortgage backed bonds during the run up to the financial crisis.	But Ms. Polisi added that there had been considerable substance to a number of Mr. Schneidermans investigations as well as some major successes.	He ensured that some of that money went to help communities across the state that were overrun by abandoned houses and foreclosures often referred to as zombie homes.	False
He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species.	But nearly all have policy proposals that drive home the need for the nation to be a better environmental steward.	We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday.	We can do that.	Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps.	False
Pitting important environmental goals against working families who rely on affordable American energy is a false choice the organization said.	Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. upped the ante in his progressive agenda on Thursday when he signaled support forcriminal charges against executives at oil companies.	Fossil fuel executives should be criminally prosecuted for the destruction they have knowingly caused Sanders tweeted.	That turned into a federal lawsuit alleging the oil giant defrauded its shareholders with its messaging on climate change.Schneiderman resigned in 2018 amid allegations of physical abuse but legal battles continued to swirl around the company.	The cost of inaction is unacceptable Sanders' website claimed.	False
Or so it has been for thousands of years.	A Green Island moss bank with icebergs.Credit Matt Amesbury Antarctica is a cold white continent at the bottom of the world.	another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter who led the research project.	Dr. Matt Amesbury also of the University of Exeter said there were two main findings to take from their new study scale and temperature sensitivity Before now studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites weve been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula.	surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.	False
People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs people who deny that a fetus is a whole human people who insist fetal pain is a myth people who get outraged by claims that say men cant get pregnant.	Both GLAAD and Human Rights Watch cant seem to decide whether the science is bad because its fake and flawed or bad because it might work.	They dont refuse to take medical treatment or prescribed drugs.	Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	Etc.	False
'I don't agree with that at all.	'I think the president is right.'	I happen to disagree strongly with him on this particular issue.'	'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket and you make them put it back in they're not going to be happy.	Ross said much of the predicted backlash from other countries that drive global warming concerns would be rooted in economics not science.	False
Theyre trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used.	Youre right there could very well be a new generation coming up saying thats the only environmental issue and its not he said.	He also said that California is playing politics in its fight with the EPA to preserve its more stringent vehicle emission standards as the national standard.	I think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and one that will be held up in court he said.	He said while he encouraged EPA scientists to carry out and publish research he stressed the recent paper did not reflect EPA policy.	False
If Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is he wouldnt be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement.	The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell.	While he broke ranks this summer to express his support for a carbon tax as a possible way to combat climate change more than 30 of Curbelos Republican colleagues on the caucus supported a symbolic measure that disavowed a carbon tax.	In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money.	The only catch?	False
However there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers.	Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes?	The interaction between the hot dry air of the Sahara Desert and the cooler more humid air from the Gulf of Guinea below creates high altitude winds known as the African Easterly Jet.	Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Andrew began life as tropical waves off the coast of west Africa.	Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?	False
What does this all mean for humanity?	Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power medical care to stay healthy enough income to feed their kids education for the children so they can fulfill their potential.	Instead says O'Neill generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet.	The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage in other words using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it.	They range from boosting life expectancy above age 65 to ensuring that at least 95 percent of its adult population has graduated from high school has access to sanitation and earns more than the extreme poverty line of 1.90 a day.	False
Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	He has called climate science a cult claimed Earth is in the midst of a CO2 famine and said the demonization of carbon dioxide isjust like the demonization of the poor Jewsunder Hitler.	He has long argued that the planet and humans benefit from increased carbon dioxide emissions.	The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts.	While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement.	False
Nothing.	But most of the responsibility lies with industry not individuals she said adding this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants us to talk about.	Look whats happening now in the Amazon whats going on?	Some of it is with lightbulbs some of it is on straws some of it dang is on cheeseburgers.	With many questions focused on what candidates would ask Americans to sacrifice Elizabeth Warren pushed back on the framing.	False
They've never seen a category like this come in because it came in really at a five he said.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget told CNN that climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese.	Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth.	Top Trump administration officials have repeatedly dodged questions about how climate change affected the damage done by hurricanes Harvey and Irma saying the issue should be discussed at a later date.	False
It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some.	Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary.	We have known this since 2007.	Consequently an initial warming leads to more emission leading to more warming and more emission.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	We stand for spreading the word about the science we do especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people.	Who loses out?	Anti science censorship has become a hallmark of the Trump administration.	The intent is to try to suppress a message in this case the increasing danger of human caused climate change said Michael Mann a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University.	False
It is after all the measure of ones moral fitness to value some things say forgiveness over others vengeance.	We all hold a hierarchy of values.	For most people of good conscience the value of a human beings life supersedes that of our dog or a backyard plant.	Each individual has values good and bad and they often remain in tension with one another.	That statement not only describes Judass moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern holy as it may be poverty reduction environmental protection or any other earthly mission that does not give a preferential deference to God His creation and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities.	False
Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	While the bill has little chance of passing it is intended to spark a debate over carbon pricing as the Democratic Party prepares to take over the lower chamber of Congress.	Altogether 13 GOP members of the bipartisan climate group lost their elections and numerous others chose to retire.	In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices revenue from the tax would be given back out to households.Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one third over a 10 year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050 compared to 2015 emission levels.	False
Environmentalists spent years lobbying and campaigning to get such policies in place.	The League of Conservation Voters LCV led eight other groups in a legal challengeof Trumps recent executive order to reopen large swaths of Arctic seas to offshore drilling.LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election.	Theyare living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office namely to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Earthjustice sued to stop the Environmental Protection Agencys EPA decision to indefinitely stay the implementation of wastewater discharge rules for coal plants.	False
To Janet this is a moral issue.	March 14 2017 Gallup poll.	Lets take a closer look at this.	These were matters that we have historically agreed on if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildrens future.	Before I address that question I just stumbled upon an article in the August 1 Washington Post.	False
Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	So whats actually in it?	Under Scope of the Plan a section on labor states the committees final plan shall Require strong enforcement of labor workplace safety and wage standards that recognize the rights of workers to organize and unionize free of coercion intimidation and harassment and creation of meaningful quality career employment.	Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	More Ocasio Cortez sees this plan is being a vehicle through which social equality might finally realized through theuse of reparations to right historicalinjustices.	False
Its a challenging issue.	Im taking a very pragmatic look at it in scoping this Newsom told The Los Angeles Times recently.	But at what cost is this being done especially when nobody else is doing anything.	One cannot just immediately abut against a century of practice and policy Newsom said.	Its bloody combat.	False
But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes the BBC reports.	The Bolsonaro regime has reversed previous governments efforts to enforce environmental regulations and protect what is the largest rainforest in the world.	The right wing populist Bolsonaro who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazonhome to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so peoplecame to power in January.	The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right wing President Jair Bolsonaros environmental policies that dont give much thought to the environment at all.	Last monththe far right president accused Inpes director of lying about the scale of deforestationin the Amazon and trying to undermine the government.	False
Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	Either way you should stick to what the best available science says not the fear mongering of anti conservative zealots.	This is total nonsense.	However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence.	The Washington Posts editorial board in an article titled Yes you can blame President Trump for Hurricane Florence even went so far as to say Trump was complicit for the storm.	False
Okay?	They only end up making an ass out of u and mption'.	Because as the great Samuel L. Jackson once uttered on film Never make assumptions.	Okay.	Okay.	False
