The 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque amongst the buildings damaged.	The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Officials have reported five deaths but it is not clear if those were as a result of the tsunami.	Last month a series of earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok killing hundreds of people the biggest on 5 August killed more than 460.	False
The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	One of its authors a leading professor from Stanford condemned the US border wall project branding it a 'crime against biodiversity'.	ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The bordersis an ecological theatre where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The borderis an ecological theater where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	Some of the recommendations include Following existing environmental laws taking action to mitigate ecological harm and forgoing physical barriers in particularly sensitive areas.	False
Like this story?	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry said Kristen Monsell oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	he said.	False
SANDERS CALLS FOR 'REGISTRY OF DISREPUTABLE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS' CUTTING PRISON POPULATION IN HALF The Vermont senator has long been an advocate for the Green New Deal but only this year has it become a central policy for many of those seeking the Democratic nomination for president.	He also promises justice for frontline communities via a 40 billion Climate Justice Resiliency Fund as well as an extra 200 billion to the Green Climate Fund.	introduced a formal resolution on it which stalled in the Senate but drewsupport from a number of 2020 hopefuls.	This year it was given a big push in Congress when Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass.	In a nod to the social justice part of the plan he says that the deal is an opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social racial and economic justice including redressing the exclusion of black brown Native Americanand other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal.	False
Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement.	Trump wants to scare people into letting him ignore the law and endanger wildlife and people Brian Segee an attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity said in a statement.	Trumps wall is a divisive symbol of fear and hatred and it does real harm to the landscape and communities.	Despite sidestepping these laws DHS is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and will continue to assess potential impacts coordinate with relevant stakeholders and to the extent possible offset or mitigate potential impacts department spokesman Carlos Diaz said in an email to HuffPost.	Between 2005 and 2008 the department invoked that authority five times according to the agency.	False
We cant sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying especially when you know theres another way.	My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	The trouble is President Trump would heartily agree with Schwarzeneggers point while perhaps debating the exact statistics.	But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord.	Meanwhile he should probably think about terminating that video.	False
For years now its been clear that blocking environmental regulations and obstructing action on climate change are top Republican Party priorities.	The actual Paris deal agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 is aspirational rather than binding calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction.	The GOPs leading politicians and media outlets have tended to praise fossil fuel companies and ignore or cast doubt on climate science.	President Donald Trump announced his decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord at 3 pm Eastern in the White House Rose Garden.	The Associated Presss Jill Colvin and Julie Pace though report that Trumps decision may not be entirely clear cut and that aides continued to deliberate on caveats in the language.	False
The numbers don't lie.	What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency.	It is very worrying.	We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed said Erik Solheim head of UN Environment.	Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement.	False
California Gov.	We're for clean air and water but at the same time we're for reasonable regulations Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters.	Its bloody combat.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Its bad and how we counteract it is with a climate summit with normal people respecting the truth and communicating that with other normal people and combating the President of the United States in what are lies distortions and quite frankly bizarre behavior.	False
Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil.	You are failing us.	Right here right now is where we draw the line.	People are suffering.	And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth.	False
Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all.	Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios Amy Harder during the event.	Republicans on the other hand want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	RELATED John Kasich Praises The Green New Deal However Senate Democrats are trying to avoid having to vote on the Green New Deal resolution.	False
My question is Why us?	How are they going to get there?	There are a lot of folks who simply wont do the move.	If we have the most industry and we do the most enforcement and get the greatest results what better way to disembowel the EPA than going after Region 5?	And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block.	False
The world is not flat pollution is not free and the health and safety of our children is not for sale said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra standing alongside the governor.	Pollutants coming out of vehicles out of the tailpipe does permanent lung damage to children living near well traveled roads and freeways.	This is a fact.	The rules were set six years ago when California and the Obama administration agreed to a single nationwide fuel economy standard.	At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions.	True
Fox who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign said the U.S. leader's decision condemns this generation and those to come and would leave a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness.	Wherever we live whoever we are we all share the same responsibility make our planet great again Macron added.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	The European Union's top climate change official Miguel Arias Canente said in a statement that Trump's decision to leave the Paris accord made it a sad day for the global community adding that the bloc deeply regrets the unilateral decision.	He said I do respect this decision but I do think it is an actual mistake both for the U.S. and for our planet.	True
As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	If the human race wants a future that looks like utopia and not dystopia it needs to address such concerns Lagarde said predicting that in 50 years time oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence.	Whereas the Paris Climate Accord prates about greenhouse gas emissions it never once mentions the word pollution in the entire 27 pagedocument.	Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide three times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence.	Most signatories Solomon notes in an essay in last Fridays Financial Post are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	False
Correspondent Chip Reid echoed by referencing worldwide condemnation.	The twin disasters of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showcased once again the media's reflex to use such tragedies to push for liberal climate change policies.	The commentary in these stories was as one sided as the rest of Trump's coverage has been with 88 percent of evaluative statements criticizing the President vs. a mere 12 percent that praised him.	Thus our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line Republicans supporting Trump Democrats criticizing him and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story such as statements from experts presented as non partisan voters or opinionated statements from the networks own reporters.	Using these criteria MRC analysts tallied 121 evaluative statements about the Trump administrations approach to the environment from January 20 to August 31 2017 of which 106 88 were negative vs. a mere 15 12 which were positive.	False
The ReutersIpsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3281 people.	The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming including disputes over its existence have grown deep roots distorting the way Americans view the world around them.	It found that 22 of Republicans reported personally experiencing climate change compared to 60 of Democrats.	For more conservative Americans the link between weather and climate change is not a typical conversation Marlon said.	It has a credibility interval a measure of precision of 2 percentage points up or down.	False
We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities.	These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse and as strong as it is resilient.	Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	Our hope rests not in convincing the willfully ignorant to change their ways but in the coming together of broad based peoples movements prepared to act to take back the initiative moving from resistance to power.	Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change.	True
While political spin doctors often find ways to parse language and statistics to say things that are plausibly defensible but which are ultimately misleading or just wrong for me such misrepresentations have gone too far in an area where I have some considerable expertise Pielke wrote.	Her call even got a reaction from NPR which defended its reporting but was sympathetic to her message.	The willingness of some in the media and the scientific community to offer false or misleading claims does not offer a route to scientific integrity Pielke wrote.	Pielkes career beentargetedby Democratic lawmakers and activist journalists to impress a billionaire donor.	California Democratic Gov.	False
Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue.	However there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence.	Skepticism and debate are always welcome and are critically important to the advancement of science the letter said.	I think its OK for us to ask questions and be skeptical about information Perry said in response according to a EE News report of the event.	Instead he opted to tell oneyoung lady to sit down and said its OK to be skeptical about information.	False
The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side and we think the judge will agree.'	Department of Homeland Security.	Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University.	On Friday he heard two and a half hours of arguments and saidthat he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews.	A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversityenvironmental groups and the State of California against theU.S.	False
I am hopeful that the exposure of such intolerance will lead to an improved working environment in my department and among others in my discipline Mass said via email Wednesday.	The picture has since been removed.	The assistant deans email claimed the blog had imagery and text that was racially insensitive and caused offense to a significant number of members in the departmental community.	Name calling and politicization of science are toxic to the scientific enterprise and undermines our credibility in the general community.	I 1631 will be a trough of billions of dollars of cash for left leaning social action and progressive groups and dealing with climate change will be a secondary priority Mass wrote in a blog post with a picture of pigs feeding at a trough.	False
Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953.	U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy.	Erik Grafe an attorney with Earthjustice welcomed the ruling saying it shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans wildlife and climate.	The American Petroleum Institute a defendant in the case disagreed with the ruling.	In the Atlantic Mr. Obama banned exploration in 5937 square miles of underwater canyon complexes citing their importance for marine mammals deep water corals valuable fish populations and migratory whales.	False
Soros is the director and founder of Open Society and has financed climate crusades in the past.	Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund RBF Rockefeller Family Fund RFF and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times report.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Yet in public it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change.	The LA Times for its part has failed in the past to disclose itsties with RFF.	False
The abolition of slavery.	Womens suffrage and womens rights.	The climate movement not least in cities is right now in the tradition of all the great moral causes that have improved the circumstances of humanity throughout our history Gore said in the speech.	Fox Friends criticized Gore for comparing the climate change fight to fights against moral issues such as slavery and apartheid in a July 13 speech at the Ecocity World summit in Australia.	The civil rights movement and the anti apartheid movement in South Africa.	False
You have no love or admiration for nature.	Jobs matter!	We stand committed to preserving the natural beauty of our nation.	Public radio show host Al Letson wrote How will you preserve the natural beauty of the land if you dismantle the Nathan Bernard from Brooklyn New York replied on Twitter You say Happy as you prepare to literally blow up the entire earth.	Were going to have safety were going to have clean water were going to have clean air but so many regulations are unnecessary so many are job killing Trump said in March.	False
We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path said Shimkus who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science.	That included 64 percent of Republicans and 57 percent of self described conservative Republicans.	Glamour Rep. John Shimkus R Ill. long a climate change denier who in the past has relied on Bible verses to make his case argued against the Green New Deal at a House hearing on Wednesday.	I guess I can understand if someone has not had a lot of life experience and theyre proposing something thats extremely unrealistic well impossible.	The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others.	False
Seychelles President Danny Faure said Our large ocean brings development opportunities but also responsibility.	The Oscar winner said This effort will help the people of Seychelles protect their ocean for future generations and will serve as a model for future marine conservation projects worldwide.	Under the terms of the 21m 15m deal the charity and the investors including the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation paid for a portion of the Seychelles national debt.	By planning properly to protect our environment we can be sure we are also protecting our people and their livelihoods against an uncertain future.	In exchange for getting some of its national debt paid off the island nation has agreed to protect 210000 sq km 81000 sq miles of ocean.	False
Im sure theres giant corruption going on.	But Lovelock has since renounced this view.	So saysJames Lovelock 98 one of the worlds pre eminent environmentalists in a wide ranging interview on todays Delingpole podcast for Breitbart.	There is global warming.	Its as stupid as saying you should never go out of your home because if you do theres a chance youll be killed by something or other.	True
This quiet revolution may simply be a welcome return to common sense and realism.	With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion.	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts.	Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris Solomon writes.	Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron.	False
On Wednesday one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	In a way that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy.	As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling the reason she called for the Obama era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a reasoned explanation as to why its flawed.	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda the Trump administration has had one goal in mind destroying former President Obamas environmental legacy.	U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a reasoned explanation for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	False
He is a flawed character Stephen Lacey editor in chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia said on his podcast The Energy Gang last year.	While Gore has become one of the most prominent advocates for reducing carbon emissions and fighting to reduce the effect of climate change the former vice president has not been immune from claims that his work is not as altruistic as it appears.	Releasing the report on Black Friday is a transparent attempt by the Trump administration to bury this report and continue the campaign of not only denying but suppressingthe best of climate science said study co author Andrew Light an international policy expert at the World Resources Institute.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Gore left the vice presidents residence with a relatively modest net worth of 1.7 million mostly from family farm assets but since the release of his 2006 documentary An Inconvenient Truth and his continuing global tour to preach his message he has amassed a fortune valued at upward of 200 million.	True
The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	Thats less onerous than limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius but still no walk in the park.	In the U.S. Republican lawmakers overwhelmingly passed a resolution opposed to carbon taxes in July.	However its what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes report released Sunday night sees as a policy option for reducing emissions enough to keep projected warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	True
I have a strong opinion.	No.	Were going to have that.	He said Managing the forest is part of it.	And there are fears that the eventual death toll will rise much higher with almost 1300 people still unaccounted for.	False
Families where many people have cancer.	These communities need justiceand I will stand with them she added	As Ive traveled this country Ive heard the human stories from frontline communities.	Warren argues that justice plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change crisis citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people Warren calls this phenomenon environmental racism and concludes that environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long.	In this instance it is the Superfund Waste Tax.	False
The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent startling example Gore tweeted Monday.	Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Migrants are fleeing violent corrupt countries with poor economies but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame.	Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations.	False
It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures.	Above and beyond its sinfulness failure to care for the environment is an injustice and a crime Francis suggested and should be legally enforced.	But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good.	We must introduce we are thinking about it in the Catechism of the Catholic Church the sin against ecology the ecological sin against the common home because it is a duty the pope said Friday in addressing participants in an international conference on penal law.	The pontiff said that such actions are usually caused by corporations and an elementary sense of justice would require that they be punished for them.	False
But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election.	During Tuesday's hearingNASAEarth Science Division Director Michael Freilich was asked about the scientific integrity of the administration's most recent climate assessment released in November which White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders described as not based on facts.	Lets have conservatives have a discussion instead of being in denial that this is a problem former Ohio GOP Gov.	The report is a comprehensive scientificallyrigorouslyanalysisand assessmentif the availableinformationprimarily from the U.S. government Freilich said.	As we careen toward irreversible environmental tipping points we have no time to waste debating alternative facts only to invest years more reestablishing trust in the real ones Kerry wrote.	True
HAZARD Ky.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obamas legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop President Barack Obamas push to limit carbon emissions.	For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.	The war on coal is over EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declared in the coal mining state of Kentucky.	False
To make it cheaper for coal companies to strip mine in watersheds and make it more expensive for families to visit Yosemite is a perversion of American values said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club.	When its not personal then you revert to what your team has been saying and the values your team has.	That means wise use said Land Tawney president of Backcountry Hunters and Anglers a national conservation group headquartered in Montana.	As such the agency is often the arbiter between oil gas and mining companies seeking access to valuable resources embedded in public lands and environmentalists seeking to protect the same lands for biodiversity wildlife and recreation.	I think the secretary is a fraud.	True
Fifty one senators decided to put the best interests of taxpayers and the environment first and narrowly saved a rule to limit methane emissions.	For anyone growing cynical watching beltway politics Wednesdays victory on the methane rule was a rare and welcome reminder that common sense can still win out over the deep pockets of the oil and gas lobby.	The better we protect our environment the better we can protect people.	So when a vote to overturn a relatively obscure rule governing oil and gas drilling on public lands failed green groups were understandably jubilant.	The vote was a win for taxpayers a win for the environment a win for national security and a win for democracy.	False
They worship at the altar of nihilistic capitalism.	The cruelty and the idiocy of Donald Trumps presidency does not chiefly lie in his tweets or even his words.	Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctity of fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people.	Mike Pence wont save you.	Its not just clean drinking water the Trump White House has disregarded.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	No matter what the answer is most or all of it.	Its as simple as that.	Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet.	Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is contributing to climate change Icant tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity.	False
2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April.	Greenpeace graded her an A and Sanders an A.	Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin.	There is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption Gunn Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon.	On a scale of 200 the Sunrise Movement the group that pushed the Green New Deal into the mainstream scored Warren at 168 and Sanders at 183.	False
There is no other option than victory because without victory there is not survival Inslee said at a press conference Monday.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	We have just 59 days to do our part to save our children from an endless cycle of crop killing droughts one year and rivers spilling their banks the next Inslee tweeted in January.	False
Dont they override or mightnt they override the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?	Should they just get out?	PS Has flood insurance basically induced people to take risks that they shouldnt be taking?	But right now during this era that were living in human activities and the burning of fossil fuels is by far the most powerful influence.	The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity.	False
It smells like death.	It smells like rotting corpses or carcasses.	In Parrish townspeople are considering rescheduling childrens softball games or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink.	In an earlier trash saga a barge laden with 3186 tons 2890 metric tons of non toxic paper and commercial garbage from Long Island and New York City wandered the ocean for months in 1987 seeking a place to dump it after plans by a private developer to turn it into methane gas in North Carolina fell through.	The sludge smells of dead rotting animals as well as human waste West Jeffersons attorney said in a lawsuit against Big Sky Environmental LLC.	False
It is unclear if these deaths are recorded in the government total.	Thousands of people had already fled their homes to seek shelter from violence in camps for displaced people.	On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term.	It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go.	But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful.	False
Congress should address that at some point.	And with all respect really that's where I have to focus on.	... Those are things so important to citizens of Florida right now and to discuss the cause and effect of these storms there's the... place and time to do that it's not now.	After Harvey 'we have to protect ourselves' After Harvey 'we have to protect ourselves'	To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	True
Because that wealth allows us to take care of people.	Im an environmentalist.	During the climate meeting leaders approved a 20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G 7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron US France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said.	I want clean air.	I want a wealthy country.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	However not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker the name of the project.	They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False
A huge monument spanning nearly 500000 acres and proclaimed in May 2014.	The area was protected to safeguard an ecosystem of deep sea corals three species of whale and an endangered species of sea turtle the Kemps ridley.	Covering nearly 300000 acres of remote desert north east of Las Vegas the Gold Butte monument was created by Obama in December 2016.	Environmental groups have vowed legal action to stymie any alterations to the protected areas.	Roxanne Quimby co founder of Burts Bees cosmetics and her foundation purchased tracts of land in the northern reaches of Maine with the purpose of creating a national park.	False
Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models.	Advocacy groups package these talking points for easy consumption by journalists who eagerly repeat them.	Anyone trying to score political points after a natural disaster should take a deep breath and review the science first.	These conclusions are hardly controversial in the climate science community.	Some found it ironic that states represented by climate deniers were being pummeled by hurricanes.	False
California Gov.	Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture.	Trump also lambasted policies forcing river water to be diverted during the 2016 campaign.	President Donald Trump blamed bad environmental laws for making wildfires spreading across California much worse in a Sunday tweet.	Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year.	False
The people have been heard and will continue to be heard Brune said.	I pledged to take action and today I am keeping that promise he said.	Greenpeace USAs senior climate and energy campaigner Diana Best also released a statement condemning Trumps executive order.	As expected the response to Trumps executive order from the environmental community was swift and harsh.	So far Trumps energy policies have aimed at reversing the plentiful environmental protections established by his predecessor former President Barack Obama.	False
Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society.	Thats the problem with the U.N. that they come up with these policy ideas that are just La La Land.	a climate change skeptic said of the actions urged by the report.	Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests.	How is that new?	False
However he pointed to one alarming trend The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering after the end of the last ice age.	It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	But how many lie below the ice?	We had not expected to find anything like that number.	And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned.	False
ORourkes measures include U.S. re entry into the Paris Climate Agreement ordering a reduction in methane emissions from oil and gas operations halting new drilling leases on federal land and restoring pollution standards for power plants.	The greatest threat we face which will test our country our democracy every single one of us is climate change ORourke said in a statement.	ORourke the former Texas congressman made climate change the focus of his first major policy announcement unveiling the plan ahead of a campaign stop meeting with scientists at the iconic Yosemite National Park in California.	Other candidates have announced some specific policy measures related to climate change and the environment in recent weeks and Warren has unveiled a public lands policy that would ban new drilling and mining leases on federal lands.	Environmental group the League of Conservation Voters on Monday praised ORourkes plan saying that it offered the kind of leadership we need from the next president.	False
Taken together they provide a comprehensive platform for clean energy and climate policy that can serve as a golden standard and a beacon of hope for the rest of the planet until common sense returns to the White House.	This summer in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state this nation and the world.	Most importantly policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities.	Clean energy isnt just good for the planet its good for consumers monthly utility bills and for the economy.	In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best.	False
For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	Its a fact.	Its the speed.	So congressman or the congressmans staff heres the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off thats been debunked.	So congressman its like this in calculus terms.	False
Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top tier concern.	So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	Ahead of the election polls showed that more than 60 percent of Virginians wanted their government to do more about climate change.	Candidates like Joshua Cole who won the election for Virginias 28th House District campaigned on environmental action including upgrading infrastructure to make it more resilient and deploying clean energy.	Like the Green New Deal resolution introduced in the US Congress Virginias version aims to move the state to 100 percent renewable energy while pursuing social welfare programs like job retraining for workers who would lose their jobs in the transition.	False
Why the push abroad?	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March.	As a responsible developing country Chinas plan determination and policy to tackle climate change is resolute Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the Associated Press.	It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when thats less politically popular in China.	False
In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said.	ROME Reuters Pope Francis implicitly criticized the United States on Monday for pulling out of the Paris agreement on climate change praising it as a means to control the devastating effects of global warming.	U.S. President Donald Trump announced the decision in June shortly after visiting the pope a strong supporter of the deal.	False
We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns he said.	We're not going to rush to make a decision.	But a couple of things are missing.	We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States.	They signed an agreement which stated there was a need for urgent global action.	True
Undoing the rule threatens to upend that uniformity.	This is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakersMcCarthy now the director of Harvard Universitys Center for Health and the Global Environmenttold HuffPost.	Carol Browner who served as the agencys chief from 1993 to 2001 said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations.	The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation noting that the social cost of carbon and energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence.	She noted that the Golden State compromised on a number of rules including a zero emissions vehicle program.	False
The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides.	The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation.RELATEDSEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy Exxon engaged in a longstanding fraudulent scheme to deceive investors analysts and underwriters concerning the companys management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulationthe lawsuit notes.	The lawsuitfollows over three years of investigationfirst orchestrated by former Attorney General Eric Schneiderman who resigned in April over abuse allegations from former romantic partners.	Sher who was with Sher Leff at the time allegedPawas group Pawa Law Group failed to distribute money from a settlement in the case.	Hagens Berman and Sher Edlings dramacomes after New York fileda lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the companys oil products pose on the climate.	False
In an indication of likely conservative opposition to Gaetz'splan advocacy group FreedomWorks issued a statement calling it a sad example of Republicans thinking theyre conservatives by being slightly to the right of far left.	EVIL' His plan which he is putting forward in a House resolutioninvolves a number of planks including revisitingglobal trade and intellectual property policies to create an international marketplace fair to American innovators.	Do we really believe that if we outlaw cars cows planes and buildings that the rest of the world will follow?	Traditionally Republicans have been more skeptical about mans influence on the climate.	But this year it has emerged in the Democratic mainstream with a resolution introduced in the House and support from most major 2020 Democratic presidential candidates.	False
Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli.	But we've stuck to our guns.	You are really exposed to the reality of the situation when you live by the sea says campaigner Zana Kontamanoli.	A shocking 95 of waste in the Mediterranean is plastic.	Research shows that when recycling is separated people are less likely to just chuck all their waste in and contaminate it says Kontamanoli.	False
Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people.	Photosynthesis is the process of converting carbon dioxide into carbohydrates which power plants using sunlight.	In other words more carbon dioxide which is being produced by humans at record levels has improved plant growth which in turn improves food production for humans and animals.	False
This story is part of a group of stories called Vox Sentences is your daily digest for whats happening in the world.	Buzzfeed News Otillia Steadman If a person can accomplish all of that positivity with so little imagine what they could do with a little bit of support and encouragement.	Your daily wrap up for the day in news.	Roll Call Michael Macagnone The Council on Foreign Relations Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters granting political agency dividing up federal funds and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations.	NBC29 CJ Paschall Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses.	False
Well this is the end result of that decision.	Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	We told you last week that the DNC refused to allow their 2020 Democratic candidates to debate the issue of Climate Change.	They were afraid that it would end up hurting whichever candidate goes into the general election next year.	Along with the candidates the network also announced the CNN journalists and the approximate appearance times for the presidential hopefuls during the seven hour live event.	False
His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress not the court system is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses.	Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming.	Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm.	It is manifest thatglobal warming would have continued in the absence of all California related activities of defendants Alsup wrote in his July 27 decision.	Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies.	False
Lawmakers pointing to President Donald Trump's skepticism about climate change and his administration's steady rollback of measures meant to mitigate the impacts of global warming were scathing.	Those omissions are just one reason lawmakers greeted the Congressionally mandated report with eviscerating criticism on Friday.	The report is an inadequate incomplete partisan document said Sen. Jack Reed the ranking Democratic member of the Armed Services Committee.	The report reads like an introductory primer and carries about as much value as a phonebook he said.	The Pentagon report notes that the department is incorporating climate resilience as a cross cutting consideration for our planning and decision making process and not as a separate program or specific set of actions.	False
Conservation must remain a way of life.	The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water.	Brown also said the need for conservation continued.	California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation among other measures.	The drought cost the agricultural economy billions killed an estimated 100 million trees led a half million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water.	False
The report is not without its controversies.	We think that this is the most extreme version and its not based on facts she said.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes froma 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors.	False
This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations said David Doniger senior strategic director of the Climate Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science public safety and reality said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	This would ease an Obama era rule that was a central target in critics' accusations of a war on coal.	Environmental groups argue that in order to reduce climate change risks the world will have to stop burning coal.	Previous actions include relaxing Obama era regulations on carbon emissions and mercury emissions as well as rolling back existing regulations that govern coal ash.	False
We can't have a thriving economy if you don't have a healthy clean environment.	We have many priorities at the agency.	President Trump has an America First policy he said.	But in terms of climate leadership it is exactly the opposite.	And now of course it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation.	False
He has been outspoken in favor of gun control and after the shooting in Parkland Fla. last year he confronted President Trump on live television denouncing Mr. Trumps suggestion to arm schoolteachers.	His advocacy on the issue goes back many years he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.	While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P.	His environmental policy record in his home state is long.	False
The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape does not support the scenario of over exploitation.	We contest the common narrative that past human environment interactions must always be one of over exploitation and degradation.	Previous studies have put the blame for the collapse of the 'Green Sahara' onto these nomads who have often been marginalised in history but this latest studies dispels that myth.	Our study shows that increasing human population and sustainable pastoralism did not accelerateand may even have delayedthe decline of the 'Green Sahara'.	It is thought that early pastoralists in North Africa developed intricate ways to efficiently manage sparse vegetation and relatively dry and low fertility soils.	False
A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	All we have to do is give up our common sense.	When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	Still Ocasio Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action itll solve every problem under the sun including racism and bigotry.	Tidal generators beach whales with such frequency that if it were a Republican backed project environmental groups would be having conniptionfits and endless marches.	False
Eventually it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs.	Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	The content is provided for information purposes only.	At the same time if meat is all that is left when he rummages through garbage or approaches buffets he makes it a point to go last he will consume it.	Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research no part may be reproduced without the written permission.	False
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a not for profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	Ding Dong the Witch is Dead.	They recognised us as the pre eminent organisation opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote.	Still waiting for Chris Mooney and Juliet Eilperin at the WaPo and Seth Borenstein at AP to flame out Bast writes.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	False
I've heard the climate change argument back and forth.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	However Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry.	We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access that have refused to allow the harvest of timber Zinke told Breitbart Monday.	Earlier this week Zinke blamed environmental terrorist groups for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio.	False
It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment.	No impact to the community has been reported the company said.	The unit was stabilized.	At this time while we do not believe there is any imminent danger the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire andor explosion within the site confines is real Arkema said in a statement.	This effectively means the affected companies can report whatever they wish without any oversight from the state regulators.	False
Yummy or yucky?	I ask a three year old what she thinks.	What for some might be food hell has got my tastebuds jumping with curious excitement we're about to eat jellyfish.	I'm not entirely convinced.	I ask.	False
Conservative lungs and other bodily organs are as vulnerable to pollution bred terminal ailments and the violent effects of climate change as their liberal counterparts.	Lets be clear about what is at issue here.	When you go through the list of health standards slated for Pruitts abolition you wonder whether there are any limits to his cold blooded corporatized agenda.	History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self inflicted wounds and scandals.	Thats when you know that the officious Pruitt doesnt even care about appearances much less the perils of lawless and secretive influence peddling that enriches President Trumps investments.	True
There is an inherent tradeoff between affordable energy and environmental harm and it makes no sense to ask judges and juries rather than elected legislators to strike the right balance.	So whats the problem?	First unlike smoking energy is a basic good.	We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels and yet publicly available industry funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing.	The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits.	True
Another problem which compounds the first is that they get greedy.	First they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility.	They might also think they missed a crucial plot point if the protagonists proposed a sweeping government effort to stop the meteor and then when given the opportunity to vote for it voted present in protest.	Like a high school game of telephone this quickly became a blanket statement that we have twelve years to save the planet.	They were right.	True
However Morris argued that the department had not given areasoned explanation for how it came to this conclusion.	Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available.	In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation.	These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA Morris wrote.	In November 2015 former President Barack Obamas administration blocked the pipelines construction citing potential environmental impact.	False
A study fromthe Institute of International and European Affairs says Trump's decision has created the 'moral and political cover for others to follow suit' in leaving the agreement.	Climate Change.'	Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.	'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change' saidJoseph Curtin a senior fellow at the IIEA.	The statement was issued by Frank Bainimarama of Fiji Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco Laurent Fabius of France and Manuel Pulgar Vidal of Peru.	False
Unacceptable and immoral.	We need a vision and a plan to not willful ignorance.	Ignore distort or censor.	The reports lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human caused climate change.	Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change.	False
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	SteveGorehamis a speaker on the environment business and public policy and author of thebookOutside the Green Box Rethinking Sustainable Development.	While advocates of climate common sense are pleased with the recent court decisions the acceptance that humans are causing dangerous climate change by the oil and gas defendants is very disappointing.	Note that Judge Alsup is not a conservative judge.	Last week the US House of Representativespasseda resolution opposing a carbon tax.	False
The US and the three other nations sided against welcoming the measure.	The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it but not to welcome it as that would denote endorsement of the report the State Department said in a statement.	Washington CNN Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report.	At the recent G20 meeting in Argentina which came just days after the release of that dire climate report US diplomats insisted on noting that the US reaffirmed its intention to withdraw from the Paris accord.	A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security utilizing all energy sources and technologies while protecting the environment.	False
Who knows what a frog is worth?	Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that the value of life on earth is priceless and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is too expensive to prevent extinction.	If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing.	Because who knows what a snail is worth?	If these regulations had been in place in the 1970s the bald eagle and the grey whale would be extinct today.	True
'Greta embodies the moral authority of the youth activist movement demanding that we act immediately to solve the climate crisis.	Another wrote 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'.	during the UN General Assembly this year.	By lunchtime the hashtag was trending on the social media platform with one popular response reading 'A 16 year old with Asperger's and non native English speaker has better social and communications skills than the current President of the United States.	The teen girl with Asperger's syndrome is the face of the youth climate movement drawing large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences since last year.	False
Gov.	She says typically the agency would communicate with a state privately and work out differences to encourage a cooperative rather than adversarial relationship.	Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court.	I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air more than any other place in the country says Janet McCabe who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute.	This letter is a threat of pure retaliation Newsom says.	False
The protests which have lasted for weeks have even become deadly.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Its proved time and time again to be not politically popular and we havent even priced the policy at where economists say it needs to be.	Initiative 1631 for example was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country.	RELATED Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administrations Event At UN Meeting Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy.	False
Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive.	This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical Polar Biology the press release said.	USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice terrifying but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective.	While rising temperatures have certainly put a strain on species in some parts of the world a new study by researchers at the University of Southern Denmark suggests animals in the Arctic region are thriving as because of higher global temperatures.	Current data suggest about 14.28 million square km of sea ice remain.	False
It's an adventure.	Actually this is a good experience.	It's strange.	We need a policy that looks at the climate through completely different eyes Environment Minister Sergio Costa said Thursday.	We need to be resilient and adapt.	False
Sometimes the pot calls the kettle black.	And to me the answer is innovation.	But the question is What do we do about it about whatever risk there is?	Its one thing to be an ignorant fool but its quite something else to allow ones malicious ignorance to potentially threaten the entire planet Mann said.	We oppose all of these because they end up being cronyism.	True
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	TIME listed Greta Thunberg a 16 year old climate change activist on its list of the 100 most influential people of 2019.	Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote.	Erosion of fertile topsoil deforestation of the rainforest toxic air pollution loss of insects and wildlife acidification of our oceans these are all disastrous trends said Thunberg barely able to keep her tears back.	RELATED Another Canadian Province Boots Liberals Out Of Power Over Carbon Taxes Environmentalists even some climate scientists are increasingly promoting Thunbergs actions in an effort to draw more young people into climate activism.	False
The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection.	The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real world problems.	It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power Buzbee said.	The Supreme Court now for decades has said that environmental and aesthetic interests count for standing Buzbee said.	Writing for a divided panel he found that this good neighbor rule overstepped the EPA's authority.	False
For example The Washington Posts write up of the IPCCs report focused on the mainline findings namely that the world is woefully off target to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data.	RELATED Its The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming Until The Next Chance When it comes to droughts for example the IPCC admits there is low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale.	Delegates are expected to make further commitments to implement the Paris climate accord that calls for limiting future warming below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100.	The report added that streamflow trends since 1950 are non statistically significant in most of the worlds largest rivers.	False
The Council argues in favor of finding ways to humanely stabilize population as a means of mitigating the effects of global warming.	The antidote to the Councils doomsday predictions are to take the world back to pre industrial levels of CO2 emissions the text declares conjuring images of bearded Amish people driving about in horse drawn carriages.	Not only present evils however but future calamities are also prophesied with astounding exactitude and certainty.	Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions however the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal population control.	Humanity must restore a safe level of greenhouse gas concentrations and global average temperatures well below todays levels and back to pre industrial levels as quickly as possible it states.	False
And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act.	But they disregard some of its most important teachings when formulating policy.	Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this.	After all we have a surplus of evidence.	Republican politicians often evoke the Bible when it suits their purposes.	False
This gives you an idea of just how badly infected are the nations of the free world by the green virus.	Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public.	Here are some of the highlights Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti Christian society If science was all about consensus wed still be living in caves Greens want to make life nasty brutish and short Wheres the evidence for climate catastrophe?	We think wererational but where green policy is concerned were little better than the Aztecs Oh and by the way the way were carrying on Western Civilization is on its way out	Butyou rarely hear itsotrenchantly expressed by a former world leader as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex Prime Minister Tony Abbott in ahard hitting must read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation.	False
The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added.	We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral.	We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of Gods creation including the complex beautiful and life sustaining planet earth.	inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer.	The one Catholic priest and three Protestant clergy criticized Sen. Steve Daines R Mont.	True
I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	As a Michigan state legislator Tlaib fought to reduceair and water pollution in Detroit and put environmental justice at the center of her campaign.	Be hopeful.	For me those young people I saw at that church that was me 15 years ago Tlaib said in a phone interview.	The night before Tlaib and Representative elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez N.Y.who made headlines today by joining the protesters at Pelosis officehad stopped by St. Stephens church to meet with the activists on the eve of the demonstration.	False
Like this story?	The campaign claims it merely left out the citations.	Caught in a pile of lies the campaign responded with a strikingly similar excuse To the degree it wasn't attributed it was an oversight or inadvertent Biden's 1988 campaign aide told the New York Times.	Biden's campaign waited the better part of a day to address the charges as the news spread buoyed by anger at the candidate over news he'd lied about marching in the civil rights movement finally telling Business Insider that while they had inadvertently left out several citations from the final version of the document posted to the website it had been updated to include references.	Biden's habit of plagiarism dates back to his first presidential campaign in 1988 when he lifted a popular speech from a UK politician that mischaracterized his own family background implyinghe was descended from coal miners and the first in his family to attend university.	False
Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of dirty power plants.	The Sierra Club distributed a press release on Wednesday announcing it had received the 64 million donation to support its Beyond Coal campaign and other organizations with the same ideology that would like to put all coal operations out of business and the American workers who depend on them out of work.	It was started and continues to be led by communities in both red and blue states who are tired of having their air and water poisoned when there are cleaner and cheaper alternatives available cities and states that are determined to clean their air and reduce their costs and businesses seeking to lower their energy bills while also doing their part for the climate.	Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said.	President Trumpsignedan executive order in March ordering a review of the Clean Power Plan as well as other environmental regulations.	False
Its not based on facts.	One of the problems that a lot of people like myself we have very high levels of intelligence but were not necessarily such believers said Trump speaking to the Posts Josh Dawsey and Philip Rucker.	You look at our air and our water and its right now at a record clean.	Trump toured the town of Paradise which was incinerated and said that his opinion of climate change hadnt shifted after the visit.	Its based on modeling.	False
They refuse to see it accept being ignorant and continue their refusal to acknowledge that climate change is real and it will have and already has had devastating effects on the planet.	With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria it cannot be ignored any longer.	However with a Trump administration it will be if allowed.	Wehrum tried to sleazily worm his way out of answering the simple question.	The truly maddening part though is that Merkley showed the American people that its not just ignorance its intentional ignorance.	True
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	This represents a 1 percent decrease from the previous year and a 14 percent decrease since 2005.	Claim 3 From 2005 to 2017 this country has reduced emissions by 14 percent claimed Perry.	He also threw his support behind a 7 billion electrical transmission project to send renewable energy to communities across the state.	Here are four checks on claims from the interview.	False
I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	I think there's probably a difference.	But I don't know that it's man made.	You know we're talking about over a ... millions of years.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson Elon Musk and Bill Gates in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton.	Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trumps decision to withdraw from the agreement.	To answer that question Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live.	Can we really be sure that these people take carbon emissions seriously?	But hold on for a minute.	False
The conclusion?	And on that score paper bags fare worse.	Not necessarily.	Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost free.	Back in 2011 Britains Environment Agency conducted a life cycle assessment of various bag options looking at every step of the production process.	False
WASHINGTON AP An agency ethics official at the Environmental Protection Agency says Administrator Scott Pruitts lease of a Capitol Hill condo tied to a prominent fossil fuels lobbyist didnt violate federal ethics rules.	Walter Shaub who ran the U.S. Office of Government Ethics until last year rated EPAs legal justification of Pruitts living arrangements as Total Baloney.	Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency.	Minolis memo says the 50 a night rate would total 1500 for 30 nights a month which he deemed to be a fair price.	Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	False
How are animals faring in the fires?	What's the latest on the ground?	There appears to be little respite.	People who cannot defend their property from approaching fires have been told they should leave immediately.	It hasn't come close to the fatalities of 2009 when nearly 200 people died but the scale of the damage has been huge.	False
Now left unattended and gathering trash and human waste the Trump administration has let them reflect us at our worst.	This story was originally published bytheGuardian.	While the majority of the public will be respectful there will always be a few who take advantage of the opportunity to do lasting damage.	It is a violation of the stewardship mandate motivated only by politics.	Absolutely American absolutely democratic they reflect us at our best rather than our worst.	False
No bloom no harvest.	So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land?	Nothing says Iowa quite like fields of corn.	They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	So it's mainly grown on relatively cool mountainsides in the tropics.	False
What risks do protesters take?	Lecuyer stresses that non violence is part of our action consensus it is forbidden to harm the security forces site employees or to damage the equipment.	Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience especially among young people.	Tadzio Mueller a German organiser of the movement argues that massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos.	Meanwhile they plan to organise in so called affinity groups of up to 10 people of similar physical fitnessand a willingness to be arrested for trespassing and other offences.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Now those officials are preparing to discard sound scientific methods to pretend that their actions will be less deadly than they really are.	Particulate matter is extremely harmful and it leads to a large number of premature deaths Richard Revesz an environmental law expert at New York University told the Times.	He admitted to the Times that the new method would allow the Trump administration to claim its other changes would cause fewer deaths.	Using an approach described by experts as not scientifically sound the Trump administration will soon change the way it evaluates the harm from coal plants spewing more pollution into the air according to a Monday New York Times report.	False
This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord.	This fudge isnt perfect and it still doesnt solve the problem of the EPAs Obama era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless life enhancing trace gas as an existential threat.	Hence Trumps election trail promise and executive orderin March this yearrequesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP.	Note though that the CPP is not being scrapped altogether but rather being delayed indefinitely through judicial fudge.	Some conservative groups have urged the EPA to scrap the CPP without replacing it effectively ending U.S. regulation of carbon emissions.	False
Soot pollution is deadlier and more of a health hazard than smog causingmore premature deaths and lung cancer the lung association said.	The state would be much worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants.	The bad news came fromthe American Lung Association's annual State of the Air report which covers the years 2015 2017.	About 141 million Americans live with unhealthful levels of air pollution the report says placing them at risk for premature death lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	The boom in people brings an increase in cars and trucks on the roads and many of those people live in valleys and basins right where pollution tends to settle.	True
I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result.	Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	Tim Donnellyis a former California State Assemblyman and Author currently on a book tour for his new bookPatriot Not Politician Win or Go Homeless.	Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal combustion engines Mary Nichols chairman of theCalifornia Air Resources Board said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away she said.	California has had the right to write its own pollution rules since the 1970s underwaivers granted by the EPA.	False
Climate Justice.	When do we want it?	We are not here to guilt individuals that forgot to recycle a cup last week another young woman said.	Now.	We cannot live in a world that is burning one young woman said that is melting.	False
Its a matter of survival former Kiribati President Anote Tong said after meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama that year.	Nearly 200 countries eventually signed onto the Paris climate accord.	That warning was made in 1988 amid heightened urgency about global warming.	When the United Nations met in 2015 to hash out the Paris climate accord Kiribati joined other island nations in calling for an international agreement to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	That may come as a shock in light of reports that Pacific Islanders in places like Kiribati are becoming climate refugees because of rising sea levels which many scientists blame on greenhouse gas emissions.	False
The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons.	We should have higher taxes on the things that science says are probably bad for us than those that are probably good for us.	The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero.	This is analogous to taxing cigarettes and alcohol more than fruits and vegetables which everybody agrees makes sense.	New York investors including Goldman Sachs have made big bets on the preservation of the Paris deal according to The HuffingtonPost.	False
It was a different story this time around.	Montana Gov.	Former Colorado Gov.	The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists.	But I think they need more time to state the case.	False
This rule supports the administrations objective of facilitating energy dominance by encouraging increased domestic oil and gas production and reducing unnecessary burdens on stakeholders while ensuring safety and environmental protection the new rule says.	Want climate news in your inbox?	The Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement which was established after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico and regulates offshore oil and gas drilling has finalized a proposal for loosening the regulations as part of President Trumps efforts to ease restrictions on fossil fuel companies and encourage domestic energy production.	The rules created potentially unduly burdensome requirements for oil and natural gas production operators on the Outer Continental Shelf without meaningfully increasing safety of the workers or protection of the environment says the new 176 page rule which is scheduled in the coming days to be published in the Federal Register before becoming the administrations final policy.	WASHINGTON The Trump administration has completed its plan to roll back major offshore drilling safety regulations that were put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster in 2010 that killed 11 people and caused the worst oil spill in American history.	False
Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community.	Trump dismissedthe report saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man made.	Wouldnt be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now!	Be careful and try staying in your house Trump advised.	The study mandated to be released every four years under the National Climate Assessment from the multiagency Global Change Research Program was conducted by hundreds of government and external scientists.	True
But that is where reality tempers the possibilities.	But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	Between climate change and reckless exploitation and pollution of rivers streams and lakes Tamil Nadu is staring at a bleak water future.	In June 2017 villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant they alleged that more than 200000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250000 solar modules daily.	A healthy and environmentally sustainable future requires more than just switching from dirty coal to wind or solar power.	False
Others were less accusatory.	Like this story?	Elections have consequences.	Denying science has consequences.	But Gov.	False
So there was no majority opinion.	There are plenty of 63 or 72 cases where environmentally sound decisions in our view were made.	Its not like every environmental case was decided 54 Doniger said.	In this case his lone opinion became the law Bookbinder said.	One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered.	False
Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles!	In this way the environment itself is endangered something good in Gods eyes has become something to be exploited in human hands.	Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Too many of us act like tyrants with regard to creation he declared.	The expression climate crisis for instance got a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners than climate change the study found.	True
Environmentalists in California are willing to let the state dictate how they cook in their own kitchens in an attempt to save the planet.	And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame its an unthinkable loss.	USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation.	Its the only thing that people ever ask about Bruce Nilles who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute a Colorado based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency said in the USA Today report.	For natural gas companies its a threat to their existence.	False
Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock.	Rothman says thatdecreasing carbon emissions would be the best way to try to avoid the catastrophe.	A geophysics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that hes run the numbers on humanity facing a mass extinction event and the numbers are not good.	Daniel Rothman told the publication that we are approaching a threshold of catastrophe in the carbon cycle similar to that of the five previous periods of mass extinction over the last 540 million years.	The other a critical size or mass corresponds to the total carbon added to the oceans.	False
The answer doesnt really matter.	To avert climate chaos we need to challenge the free market fundamentalism that has conquered the world since the 1980s.	In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company.	As the New York Times reported in its article on the White Houses new climate plans both Happer and John Bolton who tapped him for the administration have received generous support from the Mercers the rightwing family credited with both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic.	As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	False
When it comes to advice the agency receives the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua in which the pagans are instructed to choose this day whom you will serve either God or the gods of your fathers.	Pruitt appointed Paul Gilman as the head of the Board of Scientific Counselors.Gilman currently serves as the chief sustainability officer at the waste management and incinerator company Covanta.He has been a leading advocate for incinerating trash as a source of fuel for electricity.	For Pruitt anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down.	Wholly unaddressed by the directive is any counterpart prohibition on scientists funded by industries with conflicts of interest from serving as EPA advisors Richard Denison a lead senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund wrote in a blog post.	False
Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	Republicans fled the Senate some even claiming to the leave the state refusing to sign off on a bill that wouldlimit emissions and establishpollution permitsor allowances for each ton of carbon an industry plans to emit.	AnOregon climate change bill that prompted 12 Republican lawmakers to flee the Statehouse in Salem last weekhas hit yet another snagSenate President Peter Courtney a Democrat announced Tuesday that the chamber did not have enough votes to pass the legislation.	All we're saying is it shouldn't cost thousands of manufacturing jobs raise the gas tax by 20 cents a gallon to start out with and raise natural gas prices for people who heat their home by almost 50 percent.	And the only way we could do that and stop this vote is by not providing a quorum for Democrats to roll over us.. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Protesters in support of the climate bill were disappointed Tuesday after Courtney's announcement despite assurances by Democratic lawmakers who insisted they would find a path forward for the bill.	True
This is religion for the political left and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior a top White House official told Axios who added that snarky comments from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw.	For years liberals like Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio have lectured the American public on global warming yet these hypocrites have bigger carbon footprints than millions of poorer peoplecombined traveling around the world in private jets accompanied by a fleet of SUVs.	Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact.	The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios.	President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.	False
It should be one that centers on quality institutions and policies that leverage competition and consumer choice.	Unwittingly in conservatives quest for equal treatment of different energy sources they have adopted policies that reinforce governments role in dictating energy outcomes.	While the Left is happy to use regulation to promote specific forms of energy they find ideologically appealing the response from conservatives all too often has been to weakly offer the all of the above catchphrase as a counterweight.	An analysis of President Obamas environmental legacy by the American Action Forum found the negative effect of regulations on economic growth led to forgone environmental benefits richer economies tend to value clean air more and emit less relative to production and led to regulations that were about half as effective as claimed on paper.	Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles.	True
Mandating conservation however is drastically different from incentivizing it.	Browns latest plan Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life allows the state to oversee conservation goals it sets in urban water management agencies as well as to permanently prohibit activities it deems wasteful of the water supply.	But water conservation can only go so far.	Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months.	John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Browns assertion of state power in this area will give it permanent unchecked control over local water management decisions.	False
That reflects the views of powerful conservative political advocacy groups such as Americans for Prosperity which is funded by the influential libertarian brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch.	Cancel the Paris climate treaty and any other agreements entered into unilaterally and without the consent of Congress Mr. Hamm wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump before his inauguration.	That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals.	Daniel M. Bodansky an expert in international environmental agreements at Arizona State University said that remaining in the Paris deal but weakening the United States commitment could still have the effect of generating some ill will but without the repercussions of trade sanctions.	Last month Representative Kevin Cramer a Republican from oil gas and coal rich North Dakota wrote The U.S. should present a new pledge that does no harm to our economy.	False
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	Who knows what we will find there!	There are several dangers that would face the colonists.	But what should happen after that first step?	Whenever humans leave the Earth they must take along a bubble of Earths environment which includes breathable air.	False
Its the height of irony given Europes virtue signaling last year.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	Corporate America is doing its part.	When individuals are free to choose when and how to adjust their daily lives to protect the environment without government compulsion requiring it the environment reaps the benefits.	There is nothing more vital for environmental protection than our freedom to protect the environment as individuals without Big Government and its endless red tape.	False
The resolution proposes providing all people of the United States with i high quality health care ii affordable safe and adequate housing iii economic security and iv access to clean water clean air healthy and affordable food and nature.	Workers are often paid far less than the value they create.	Ocasio Cortez fired back on Twitter and said A living wage isn't a gift it's a right.	The resolution co sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020 has been heavily criticized by those on the right.	It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty.	False
Well I think that both sides have you know their own results from their studies and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science Craft said.	Asked Do you believe in climate change?	The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.	In 2016 Craft reportedly donated 265400 toward Trumps election and 17000 to the Republican National Committee.	The Trump administration released the report ahead of schedule on the Friday after Thanksgiving a move many interpreted as an attempt to bury the findings.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others.	However Ocasio Cortez staffers have since removed farting from fact sheet.	The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals?	Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more.	True
Social issues Abortion should remain legal after 20 weeks.	Castro is a Roman Catholic who supports legal abortion access and gay rights.	Gay marriage is a protected right.	Education Establish universal pre K education.	Gun control Require universal background checks ban assault weapons.	True
Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreements goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	We are watching with bated breath the teamwrote.	Photo John SonntagNASA via AP In the six days before President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change an enormous crack in an Antarctic ice shelf grew 11 miles according to a report by British Antarctic research group Project MIDAS.	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities.	An aerial view ofthe Antarctic Peninsulas Larsen C ice shelf.	False
Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have.	The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life.	Fortunately the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets.	The findings come after the death of the last male northern white rhino.	False
She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead and one that happened in Chile in January.	Anne Petermann executive director at the Global Justice Ecology Project said the tradition has been for the government to rubberstamp genetically engineered organisms but this would be the first time they are approving a genetically engineered forest tree.	Those studies have not been done and that is one of the major points in the comments.	Eucalyptus trees are the number one industrial tree plantation used in Latin America Africa and Asia traditionally in tropical areas where commerce appreciates their fast growth and versatility.	Over 250000 Americans and 500 organizations submitted comments rejecting the US Department of Agricultures USDA proposal to approve genetically engineered eucalyptus trees for planting.	False
But it's not always been like that.	It's thought to have resulted in thousands of deaths.	So why is South Asia so much more polluted?	And the ways to protect oneself are limited.	The fight against air pollution in three global cities Why is India worse off than China?	False
They're a matter of life or death.	At this year's State of the Union address Trump talked about ending the war on beautiful clean coal.	In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it.	A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives.	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said.	False
This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	The orderinstructs the EPA to consider what countries that dont border the United States are doing to reduce pollution allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India.	In what could be the most controversial part the order requires the EPAs science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rulessomething for which industry groups have clamored for years.	It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk.	The purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected EPA wont second guess it Stan Meiburg a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency told HuffPost by phone.	False
Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished asking By the way did you know Im the guy who did all this?	Social media users were quick to criticize Bidens response with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didnt really work out so well.	Joe Biden has been roundly mocked on Twitter after making the unlikely claim to a young activist appealing for a presidential debate on climate change that he kicked off the whole global warming movement back in the late 1980s.	Think your friends would be interested?	A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group.	False
People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	'The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	I shouldn't be up here.I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean.	In her impassioned address yesterday she said 'This is all wrong.	'Yet you have come to us young people for hope.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post.	That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims.	His lies dont make it cleaner and his policies are on track to make it worse.	While Trump has been in office the air has gotten dirtier.	False
Things are better today than in March 2011.	Peter Robbins an FPL spokesman said Mayor Stoddard is wrong.	Repairs cost about 90 million.	He said he was more worried about the nuclear waste than the reactors.	Time will tell whether better proves good enough said Dave Lochbaum director of a watchdog group the nuclear safety project at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	False
Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said.	Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains.	Some have lost as much as 85 of their expanse over the past 50 years with Glacier national park site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades.	wikimedia commons Its now inevitable that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana.	The disappearance of glaciers in Montana is part of a broader loss that will see all glaciers defined as moving bodies of snow and ice larger than 25 acres largely vanish from the lower 48 states of America by the mid point of the century according to Dr Daniel Farge lead USGS scientist.	False
Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health but opponents say its a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking.	Steyers group has spent more than 10 million in support of Nevadas green ballot measure.	Polls show strong support for Proposition 112.	Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming.	A September poll put support for Proposition 112 at 60 percent but many prominent Democrats have come out against the measure.	False
This fire moved so fast I don't think anybody did anything wrong Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently.	Sometimes you do fight fire with fire.	The majority could be attributed to humans though only 8 were caused by arson.	And straying away from natural burning cycles has also contributed to the lethality of recent fires Prof Peterson says.	Damage caused by wildfires has cost 5.1bn in the last decade Verisk found.	True
Yet fears over rising gas prices proved more convincing to Evergreen State voters.	This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	The loss came as Coloradans voted down Proposition 112 a measure that would have put about 85 percent of non federal land in the Centennial State off limits to oil and gas drilling.	Scientists say such policies are necessary to make the kinds of emissions cuts required to avert the worst impacts of climate change.	The Western States Petroleum Association raised over 31 milliona record for Washington ballot initiativesfor its No campaign spending nearly 30 million of it by the start of this month.	False
Gov.	Republicans cast the deciding votes amid the endorsement of prominent California GOP politicians like former Gov.	Heoutraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement.	The passage of this bill is a rare bipartisan victory.	But at the state level politicians are fighting back and nowhere more so than in California.	False
Why do I believe that?	Do I think man has some impact?	WASHINGTON Michigan GOP Rep. Tim Walberg isnt concerned about the effects of climate change if it exists because God will take care of it.	No.	Yeah of course.	False
People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions.	The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100.	It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels.	For China pollution can rise into the 700s which could be having a major impact on happiness.	False
Is man having an effect on it?	The question should be you know just how much and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?	Its release hinges on the Trump administrations approval and one scientist who worked on the report told the Times that he and others feared the president would withhold it.	The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance.	Yeah we are.	False
He was asleep on the couch when a fissure opened up 2000 feet 610 meters away spewing out lava and gas.	All we could do was sit there and cry he said.	Lava flows from fissures on its flank have destroyed at least 36 homes and other buildings and caused the evacuation of some 2000 residents.	He tried to reach his house on Tuesday but he and his neighbors were blocked by a 20 foot tall 6 meter tall wall of lava.	Kilauea has been in a state of nearly constant eruption for 35 years.	False
But there is good news as far as climate change goes.	he said.	Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully.	It's bigger than the U.S. and Mexico combined.	They also had some surprises on the way.	False
Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide.	The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming.	President Donald Trump who insists he is an environmentalist has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change.	We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists.	True
The Organisation for Economic Co operation and Development OECD compared data on concentrations of pharmaceutical residue in water samples worldwide as well as prescribing trends and water purification regulations in various countries.	Many medicines are simply discarded in the United States alone an estimated one third of the four billion drugs prescribed each year ends up as waste.	Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate related disease.	When animals and humans ingest medicines up to 90 percent of active ingredients are excreted back into the environment.	In Britain alone ethinyloestradiol diclofenac ibuprofen propranolol and antibiotics are now present in the run off of 890 wastewater treatment plants at high enough levels to cause adverse environmental effects according to another study.	False
A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges.	Pruitts goals as EPA administrator have centered on crafting or destroying policy in order to establish a friendlier regime for the fossil fuel industry.	Inhofe was among Pruitts biggest fans although the barrage of scandals ultimately began to dim his enthusiasm.	As a New York Times story lays out Murray was the architect of a so called environmental regulations wish list which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA.	As the New York Times points out however there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss.	False
Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions.	The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	Lazarus continued the DC Circuits ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator Scott Pruitt can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration.	Two judges concluded the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration and indeed that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule.	At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation.	False
And so for us to be the exception on this issue is holding the world back.	We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world.	U.S.	When the Paris Agreement was being negotiated the U.S. delegation pushed for more transparency and accountability to make sure the countries that signed on would actually do what they promised.	The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil.	False
Once again the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country and once again its putting the health of American families and communities at risk said Michael Brune executive director of Sierra Club.	This sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority said Hal Quinn NMA president and chief executive.	Trump has called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation and a massive power grab.	But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land.	The Obama administration widened this definition to include the drinking water of about 117 million Americans.	False
Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people.	They argue these lands are abandoned but theyre not we use them in our prayers we visit them.	You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging.	When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization.	The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association.	False
That 2017 study published in the journal Science was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer respectively.	Steyer who co founded Next Generation gave roughly 58.7 million to liberal SuperPACs according to CRP.	Andrew Light a distinguished senior fellow at the World Resources Institute and reviewer of the chapter highlighting the Bloomberg Steyer funded study did not respond to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment.	Its a top line finding of a major government climate report but its based on a study funded by groups affiliated with two major Democratic donors.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	False
What are we looking for?	Many survivors at Monday's forum and in fire zones where people are returning say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal.	Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all.	In Sonoma County the scene of the most destruction and deaths county officials will draft environmental standards to be followed by any homeowners who opt to handle the clean up themselves at their own expense officials said.	Officials pointed to the public health concerns ranging from safety of residents in the burned neighborhoods to concerns for hazardous waste entering waterways and the air.	True
And while theres an element of truth to that it misses the big picture.	This has become a bedrock belief of the modern GOP.	This is the consensus that the vast majority of the Republican Party from donors to politicians to intellectuals to voters has arrived at.	More nuanced pundits and politicians acknowledge that the science is real but argue that even if it is accurate the consequences might not be so bad or that action would simply be too costly.	President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has been portrayed in some press coverage as a decision driven by either his personal idiosyncrasies or the policy agenda of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon.	False
The purpose of this rule was breathtaking.	The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years.	Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP industry lawsuit against it.	Remember what Hillary Clinton said?	This was a part of Obamas pen and phone way of ruling the country.	False
Still to be determined whether it was persuasive or consequential.	Leaders of the Roman Catholic Church broached the topic when Trump visited the Vatican.	On the other side President Trump.	And up for debate the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	Merkel called the conversation controversial.	False
Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	We dont go into policy but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that.	There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion Blunden told Yahoo News.	Now they hope the world will listen.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	False
The study has been published in the journal Nature.	All measures combined can result in keeping healthy both planet and people.	The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together.	So when it comes to climate change the authors looked at what they called a flexitarian diet.	We looked at improving agricultural yields in particular of more health sensitive crops like fruit vegetables and legumes said Dr Springmann.	False
I think that speaks for itself.	The official echoed Can we stay on topic please?	There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders former president Barack Obama and Trumps defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton who branded it a historic mistake.	I think its a little bit more nuanced than stay in or not.	one said.	False
Democratic Gov.	Courtneys admission is not rewarding Senate Republicans for bad behavior.	On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes.	Kate Brown nonetheless last week sent state police to find the lawmakers and instituted a 500 per day fine per person for each day they werent present at a legislative session.	The Republicans are not standing against climate change theyre standing against democracy she said during a press conference Tuesday.	False
No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	I mean you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you cant even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards?	And we all kinda see what is happening here if they cant do it now then why would we believe that they would be carbon free after they force all of us to live in backwards slums?	Greta Thunberg tried really hard to keep her zero emissions promise but it has collapsed like all hypocritical left wing plans because it was just too difficult.	From the Hill Greta Thunbergs plan for carbon free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up.	False
Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule this effort is all about helping industry.	Rick Scott a staunch Trump supporter he was removing the states coastal waters from consideration.	Donald Boesch a professor of marine science at the University of Maryland who served on the bipartisan commission that investigated the causes of the Deepwater Horizon blowout said easing the safety rules is both premature and ill considered.	In May the Trump administration took aim at the Well Control Rule a safety monitoring regulation meant to prevent the kind of incident that killed 11 workers and resulted in some 200 million gallons of crude oil leaking into the Gulf of Mexico.	The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism.	False
Asked by international journalists about environmental protection of the Amazon at a press briefing on 6 July he said Brazil is like a virgin that every pervert from the outside lusts for.	Macron cannot even avoid a predictable fire in a church that is part of the world's heritage and he wants to give us lessons for our country?	It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people he said.	Asked about Mr Bolsonaro's remarks Mr Macron said they were extraordinarily rude and sad.	Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster.	False
They also ignore the question as to why theres not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction she added.	David Keith a solar geoengineering GE expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	Our work is to inform better choices and it would actually be very useful to know for sure it didnt work.	But scientists such as Keith and Mark Lawrence scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies IASS in Potsdam argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less almost impossible to achieve the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster.	That would break the slow moving agreement among many environmental groups that sound research in this field makes sense Keith said on the sidelines of the Climate Engineering Conference CEC in Berlin.	False
a greener planet and enhanced crop yields.	I can.	Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	Here courtesy of Kenneth Richard who has waded through them all are some examples of what they say.	And current emissions mitigation policies especially related to the advocacy for renewables are often costly ineffective and perhaps even harmful to the environment.	False
The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products.	The lawsuit by the Democratic attorney general follows similar cases by U.S. cities and local governments arguing the production of fossil fuels had led to rising tides that damaged shorelines roads and other properties requiring remediation.	The lawsuit said that companies also violated the states Environmental Rights Act by polluting and destroying natural resources in Rhode Island.	False
We want to be there we want to be providing solutions for the world.	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come.	We know where were going.	Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his climate change minister Catherine McKenna are both disappointed over President Donald Trumps decision to break with the Paris climate accord.	Despite the lofty objectives when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers.	False
The E.P.A.	In this case the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires.	Many experts said that approach was not scientifically sound and that in the real world there are no safe levels of the fine particulate pollution associated with the burning of fossil fuels.	had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year.	Fine particulate matter the tiny deadly particles that can penetrate deep into the lungs and enter the bloodstream is linked to heart attacks strokes and respiratory disease.	False
Theyre often communities of color.	Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	I think about poor communities along the east coast he said.	You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities.	He said as former Housing and Urban Development secretary in the Obama administration he found out that 70 percent of HUD funded public or subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site.	False
We are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party OBrien said in the Reuters article.	The key here is the dividend back to the people former Sen. Trent Lott R MS who supports the young group told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	Its not sustainable for Republicans through the leadership to say We just dont want to talk about this' Lott said.	The Thomson Reuters Foundation reported on the campaign which runs counter to the stance of the Republican Party and President Donald Trump that the issue is more about globalization than saving the planet Drawn from Republican groups on more than two dozen university campuses the Young Conservatives for Carbon Dividends called for laws to tax oil natural gas and coal producers of planet warming greenhouse gases.	We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit and we need climate policy that reflects that said Kiera OBrien 21 a senior at Harvard University who co founded the group.	False
The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues.	The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement a non binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long term benefits.RELATEDA Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change So called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	The pledge is a significant change in position for van Beurden who had previously opposed such proposals citing concerns about potential lawsuits.	False
No harm no foul.	Its a no standard standard.	The rollbacks an international signal that were not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously said Jay Duffy an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force.	But its not regulations that are hurting the US coal industry its competition.	And coal consumption is at its lowest level since 1979.	False
We want to embrace better stewardship.	Theres peace time and theres global nuclear combat.	The facts of the matter is observable data climate change is more toward the peace time he added comparing the document to international relations.	Youve gotten a lot better.	We want to embrace reliability.	False
It's cents for a nation like Colombia.	They are essentially living corpses says Colombian scientist Rodrigo Bernal of Colombia's national tree.	Unfortunately there is a loophole to that status he adds.	This tree is beloved by Colombian people everyone knows it is our national tree But nobody knows we are about to lose it.	It's not a huge amount.	False
As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	A lot of the answers are coming from the communities he said.	This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	I thought his point that the timeline is set by science not by politics was compelling Miller said.	Nevertheless some audience members were impressed by Buttigiegs vision of a green America.	True
He is hurting them.	In an interview on MSNBC on Thursday former Secretary of State John Kerry said President Donald Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Accord puts America last is shameful and will hurt kids by worsening their asthma.	You have this disconnect.	Should more plants and food for people and animals really be demonized?	It is a shameful moment for the United States to have unilaterally walked away from an agreement which did not have one other country requiring us to do something Kerry told Andrea Mitchell.	False
If both options were to fail Beykpour suggested we dump this site and move on.	In 2018 the company was accused of illegally disposing of arsenic tainted wastewater from another of its California plants.	According to a 16 count indictment Crystal Geyser discharged the toxic waste into a pond that staff dubbed the arsenic pond and then worked with two waste disposal firms to illegally transport the arsenic to a plant without a license to treat it.	Facebook groups have sprung up to oppose the plant and the local tribal council voted unanimously against it.	In his email Beykpour had claimed the Chronicle was in bed with the opposition.	False
But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association.	For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.	Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes.	The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many.	Said Tyler Ray director of policy and advocacy for theAmerican Hiking Society Permitting e bike use on trails that have been thoughtfully and specifically designated as non motorized raises questions of safety and trail sustainability that must be considered.	False
But that has changed.	So that was the motivation for originally setting up the project.	That's an important distinction because it means it's insulated from changes in the ocean's temperature.	And many of those papers showed different results.	This assessment conducted by 84 scientists from 44 international organizations is known as the Ice Sheet Mass Balance Inter comparison Exercise IMBIE.	False
And it isnt as has been suggested because weve become so immune to data that numbers arent persuasive anymore.	Its time that we own our mistakes and get real about our shortcomings.	Its time we stop letting it.	The planet isnt going to wait for us to get this right.	Or we could let implicit bias and systemic racism undercut any chance we have at a sustainable future.	False
Former Vice President Al Gore blasted the decision of President Donald Trump to remove the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement on Thursday calling it reckless and indefensible.	Gore who has made two documentaries advocating climate change action said in a statement Removing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a reckless and indefensible action.	It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	The Paris Climate Agreement is a pact among nearly 200 nations made to voluntarily cut greenhouse gas emissions in an effort to combat climate change.	Gore called the conversation he had with Trump at the time extremely interesting.	False
Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category.	According to the poll which has a 3.4 margin of error 67 of Democrats 54 of independents and 33 of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Coxs views on environmental issues will impact how they vote.	every single time weve covered its been a palpable ratings killer.	so the incentives are not great.	Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News.	False
There is nothing more powerful than our nations youth marching together demanding action be taken to protect our planet and their future Sen. Kamala Harris D CA wrote.	Its time our leaders listened.	She submitted the United Nations IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony writing I am submitting this report as my testimony because I dont want you to listen to me I want you to listen to the scientists.	And I want you to unite behind the science.	To the millions of young people and allies worldwide who are striking today to demand climate justice I stand with you.	False
We face a direct existential threat.	It's a glimmer of hope in a sea of otherwise dire news.	Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting.	I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit.	Although nearly every nation on the planet including the United States promised to reduce their net greenhouse gas emissions when they signed the Paris Agreement way20170601531048986 so what exactly is in the paris climate accord climate scientists warn that the cumulative pledges are nowhere near sufficient.	False
A value added tax which is widely used around the world is consumption based.	The carbon tax would appear to clash with the priorities Trump has sought so far in his administration.	The White House on Tuesday denied that it is currently considering two controversial provisions to raise revenue as part of its broad tax overhaul.	The White House did not immediately respond to CNBC's request to comment.	Republicans have turned their attention to an overhaul of the U.S. tax system a key campaign goal after their first attempt to replace the Affordable Care Act failed.	False
In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said.	It is also true however that for the peoples concerned a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival.	The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment.	Pope Francis has made the care of the environment a central theme of his six year pontificate returning again and again to issues of ecological responsibility the dangers of carbon emissions and the scourge of climate change.	In that text the pontiff said that the earth is beginning to look more and more like an immense pile of filth as once beautiful landscapes are now covered with rubbish.	False
The article detailed aU.N.	Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment.	According to The Salt Lake Tribune Ehrlich warning of a disastrous famine urged placing sterilizing agents into staple foods and drinking water.	But short term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following An Inconvenient Truth a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore.	In 2008 ABC released an ominous video about what the world would look like in 2015.	False
Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor at Large at Breitbart News.	The mayor said he had challenged the citys Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer Instead of saying all the reasons why not get to a reason as to why.	It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	He made the decision despite the fact that top staffers have argued in recent months that the gas plants are critical to keeping the lights on in the city theTimes noted.	He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship.	False
The area is remote and foreboding the complaint said.	Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	Some of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities stated the complaint.	The lawsuit also argued that Trumps reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful.	Its drilling contractor pleaded guilty to eight felony offenses relating to environmental pollution and safety and agreed to pay 12.2 million in fines.	False
Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	I wouldnt even call it compromises.	In August the Democratic National Committee under pressure from unions backtracked on a two month old resolution to ban donations from oil gas and coal companies.	We wanted to make it so it could be an executable idea.	Maintaining legislative power for existing committees with members who might have taken contributions from oil gas and coal donors could pose some risk but would be worth it said Rep.Pramila Jayapal D Wash. the other Progressive Caucus co chair.	False
We dont have a social mission other than transparency and fact checking.	Were not going to win the internet by going out and saying everybody is doing it wrong its just a pricing story.	He admitted in a media environment that rewards sensationalism and factual manipulation the approach may seem a bit bland.	Comparing what people say to data then stepping out of the room is sort of the best thing journalists can do Roston said.	You dont go through the quarterly quarterly results from Coke Levis or anyone else and not come away thinking that they dont have concerns over limited resources like water.	False
The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it.	Clean water has a value.	A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners.	Their policies are insufficient in many ways.	Regarding the price of water.	False
Extreme heat makes pollution worse which can be dangerous for the very young the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases.	And when it gets hotter our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues.	According to the National Weather Service 21 young children have died in hot cars this year.	The temperatures reached a high of 185F 85C not quite enough for a proper bake but certainly too hot for humans or animals to survive in.	Here's what that sort of heat can do.	False
Rose Strauss apparently isnt showing favoritism in the race for Pennsylvania governor at least when it comes to asking candidates about climate change.	He has shown support for the young and naive voters Strauss told the paper adding that while Wolf has supported us verbally the governor hasnt committed to action on things we care about like climate change.	Wolfs campaign declined to say if hell meet with Strauss and other activists but offered the following statement to the Daily Record Governor Wolf is committed to protecting and preserving the environment.	You know humans have warm bodies.	This bipartisan agreement modernizes and strengthens environmental protections at oil and gas sites in Pennsylvania.	True
Can't kids just learn without an anti scientific social agenda?	There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids but that wasn't the worst.	That dubious honor goes to the episode that teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.	This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media as they use climate change as the universal bad guy so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea.	Episode 12 Monster Power teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.Albert one of the students has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is coming for us next for what we've done to this planet!	False
One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers.	The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	Perhaps not surprisingly his staff seems to share these views.	This climate denier for example	The hoax seems to have had its intended effect on Trump who according to Politico quickly got lathered up about the media's hypocrisy.	False
Pera Markovic a lawyer with Cekor an environmental group is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area.	You cannot be a world leader in curbing air pollution and at the same time the world's biggest financier of overseas coal power plants the group's energy coordinator Ioana Ciuta told the BBC.	EPS says it is spending hundreds of millions of euros on environmental protection but its track record clearly does not inspire trust.	That's likely to be the same in many other countries too whatever climate scientists say is needed.	For how long?	False
These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	FERCs other Democratic commissioner Richard Glick opposed the terminalarguinghis colleagues were deliberately ignoring the consequences that its actions have for climate change.	LaFleur for example called on FERC to factor in estimates like the controversial social cost of carbon for a cost benefit analysis.	Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy.	False
Thats not how it works.	Mr. Trump believes that because he doesnt get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them.	These conversations come at a particularly fraught time because Trump who does not share his predecessor Barack Obamas commitment to clean energy has been reviewing the United States environmental policies.	He said that the law is the law and it must be obeyed regardless of what Trump thinks adding somewhat sardonically that not everything in international agreements is fake news.	Bush in the early 90s.	False
That's just common sense.	Are we part of the reason?	Where have you been?	I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here.	Common sense tells you bring the cleaner burning fuels bring the things that bring the emissions down.	False
But her parents didnt.	A few job promises and they get to pollute as much as they want.	Then you know what we get?	Neither did at least 10 other people who lived on her block.	We are being robbed and pillaged by industry Landrum said her voice rising to a preachers righteous crescendo.	False
When you think about what that rule meant it was about picking winners and losers.	That's wrong.	first reported on the repeal proposal.	first reported on the repeal proposal.	The EPA can repeal the Clean Power Plan but not the laws of economics Bloomberg tweeted.	False
This is about social disruption Shepard said.	This is our issue Beverly said.	Were hit first and hit worst.	Theres no question that this is a topic area that black politicians including the CBC Congressional Black Caucus have not focused on as much Thomas A. LaVeist dean of Tulane Universitys School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine said in an interview.	The article also quoted Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D NY about her Green New Deal resolution that puts social justice even above climate change.	False
That is hypocrisy.	No more gaslighting.	Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me February 21 2019 You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro science.	President Donald Trumps pick to head the committee William Happer once compared the demonization of CO2 to how Jews were characterized in Nazi Germany.	Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts.	In a study titled Biofuels and the Environment The Second Triennial Report to Congress the Environmental Protection Agency EPA determined thatethanol derived from corn and soybeans is causing serious harm to the environment.Water soil and air quality were all found to be adversely affected by biofuel mandates.	Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report.	Corn growers however support the mandate as it drives demand for the product.	True
They reflect profound failure to honour collective global commitment to protect the most vulnerable.	More than half of these are believed to be children.	But we also refuse to die.	With our very existence at stake COP 25 must demonstrate unprecedented ambition to avert ecocide.	In the midst of a climate emergency retreat and inaction are tantamount to sanctioning ecocide.	False
Hunters anglers and target shooters are the best conservationists who contribute so much through the Pittman Robertson and Dingell Johnson Acts said Richard Childress NRA vice president.	On the conservation side however I think it's a much less rosy picture Fosburgh said.	They can become political footballs in our eyes.	Last year they contributed 1.2 billion toward conservation and protecting our natural resources.	The declaration also generated the support of the National Rifle Association.	True
I wasnt interested in that.	I am still not interested in that.	While working for Marco Rubios presidential campaign in February 2016 Wheeler wrote a now deleted Facebook post in which he called Trump a PR person and a bully which he said should alone should disqualify him from the White House.	He will talk to us.	Scott Pruitt was the most scandal plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption said Christy Goldfuss an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress.	False
I cant believe they are putting profits over the planet and profits over people.	After the protesters were led away by security guards Griffiths said In the US our policy is not to keep it in the ground but to use it as cleanly and efficiently as possible.	A Trump administration presentation extolling the virtues of fossil fuels at the UN climate talks in Poland has been met with guffaws of laughter and chants of Shame on you.	They talk about the life cycle of coal I talk about it as a death march.	There is no such thing as clean coal.	False
Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here.	Its a breath of fresh air to see science instead of politics inserted into forest and fire management saidKirin Kennedy associatelegislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club in a statement.	In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values.	The report comes at the same time the president has sent out misleading tweets aboutthe causes and solutions of Californias wildfires and as Donald Trumps Interior head Ryan Zinke has blamed fires on environmentalists denied climate change science and called for more logging.	Aswildfirescontinue torageacross the Westduring a brutally hotsummer on Thursday the US Forest Service released itsnewforest fire management strategy thatfocuses on science and thechanging climate.	False
Its a danger to the air we breathe.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Safe fracking is like clean coal pure fiction Sanders said in a statement Wednesday.	But for me I think the way we get there is we just say sorry guys but by 2035 youre done she said during CNNs town hall.	It causes earthquakes.	False
In West Virginia coal is popular and politicians who support coal get elected.	Our politicians are beholden to coal.	Vivian Stockman of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition was protesting outside Trumps rally.	Our state is beholden to coal.	An analysis done by his own Environmental Protection Agency EPA concludes that the rollback of Obama era pollution controls will lead to many more people dying and suffering health problems that they otherwise would not have.	False
South Carolina Gov.	They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly before the suit is filed.	Voters said they had been turned off by what they saw as Arrington's flip flop on the issue and they turned instead to Cunningham's consistency.	The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing Mace said.	State Rep. Nancy Mace a Republican representing parts of the greater Charleston area supports the lawsuit which she called South Carolina's best option to challenge federal government overreach.	False
Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them.	I dont know why he said.	I believe the climate is changing.	However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms.	It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures.	False
I understand the value of aspirational goals Bledsoesaid.	My personal view is that undermines the credibility of the effort.	Speaking at an eventcommemoratingMartin Luther King Day that monthOcasio Cortez asserted thatclimate change constituted our World War II and added Millennials and people you know Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and were like The world is gonna end in 12 years if we dont address climate change and your biggest issue is how are we gonna pay for it?'	In January White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders derided Ocasio Cortez'srecent claim that theworld will end in 12 yearsdue to climate change andsuggested the Trump administration has little need for the progressive firebrand'sthoughts in general.	And Paul Bledsoe a strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute said progressives were overcompensating.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The administration and its officials regularly disregard the scientific consensus about the harms of climate change in order to justify rolling back regulations and trashing initiatives designed to make the world cleaner and safer.	It is a threat to America and to all of humanity.	And Wheeler's approach ignoring science in favor of industry and pollution is a perfect reflection of Trump's shameful approach to climate issues.	But Trump and his fellow Republicans refuse to acknowledge reality and they certainly can't be bothered to read scientific reports about it.	False
But adults must do everything not to bring teenagers and children into some extreme situations.	And some individuals were even more scathing with sick trolls branding her the little girl with mental problems and others suggesting shes not sexy enough in vile rants.	She already has an honour to her name after winning Amnesty International's highest Ambassadors of Conscience human rights award last month.	The Russian president claimed its hypocritical to lecture poorer countries on the environmental impact of their bids to become more developed like the West.	She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth.	True
That's a false choice and it's one that you've talked about Mr. President.	You know for too long there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change.	Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers the letter added.	Those standards were designed to make cars more fuel efficient and reduce pollution.	When President George W. Bush challenged California's greenhouse gas emissions and mileage setting ability California fought it in the courts.	True
It's in their drinking water and it's in their soil.	That includes financial help to make sure that happens.	Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results.	Instead of digging up two feet of contaminated soil for disposal digging up eight feet.	One week ago the local chapter of the NAACP said it invited Pruitt to a roundtable discussion on environmental justice which happened Wednesday morning.	False
It can be summed up in one word confusion.	Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical.	They seem not to have read it.	Then came the election of Donald Trump.	So Tillersons perception that the Paris accord is not good for China or the United States was not shared by the two nations leaders.	False
It is hypocritical said Andrew Rosenberg director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	Instead there is an administration wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether.	You can't make something not real if you just don't talk about it.	Washington CNN President Donald Trump spent an hour Thursday talking about his commitment to economic growth and national stability as he announced the decision to back out of the Paris Climate Accord.	Former deputy EPA administrator under President Barack Obama Bob Perciasepe said the Trump administration's avoidance of the term just makes them seem out of touch with reality.	False
Last yearSens.	There is near universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide likely through a tax is key to scaling back emissions in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products societal costs.	But for some conservative climate hawks the reality of the IPCC report hit home.	Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administrations federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted Flint went quiet for a while.	Failing to do so would be cataclysmic.	False
The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	That doesnt put them at war with the environment and much less at war with the young and the unborn.	No matter that historically the environmentalist movement has been closely allied with the population control movement literally waging a war on the unborn through its promotion of vigorous anti natality programs and abortion on demand.	To judge a particular accord as contrary to the nations interests on the other hand is hardly a war on the environment.	The fact that a president keeps his promises is usually considered a good thing.	False
The White House has sought to stave off any discord by arguing that the order is not meant to take power away from the states but to ensure that state actions follow the intent of the Clean Water Act.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Trump's developing an addiction to executive orders that rubberstamp these climate killing projects said Brett Hartl government affairs director at the center.	Environmental groups described Trump's order as an effort to short circuit a state's ability to review complicated projects putting at risk a state's ability to protect drinking water supplies and wildlife.	The groups said in an April 5 letter that individual states shouldn't be able to use provisions of the Clear Air Act to dictate national policy thereby harming other states and the national interest and damaging cooperative federalism.	False
It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory.	Trump a proud climate change skeptic attributes the fires to lousy management.	As for the water it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents.	It's not a good week for the Delta smelt.	Speaking at a White House address on Tuesday Trumpwas shocked that Californians weren't using the water contained by their dams to put out the fires and irrigate their fields.	False
The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week.	But then the childrens lawsuit is an unusual case.	The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change whereas the childrens case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest.	False
The decision stems from an environmental lawsuit.	WildEarth Guardians Physicians for Social Responsibility and the Western Environmental Law Center sued the BLM in 2016 for failing to calculate and limit the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from future oil and gas projects.	The decision is the first significant check on the climate impact of the Trump administrations energy first agenda that has opened up vast swaths of public land for mining and drilling.	Every acre of our public land sold to the oil and gas industry is another blow to the climate making this ruling a powerful reality check on the Trump administration and a potent tool for reining in climate pollution.	Kathleen Sgamma its president told the Washington Post This judge has ignored decades of legal precedent in this ruling.	False
The question is what are we going to do about it and at what cost?	Thanks for this hearing.	There are a number of factors that contribute to that including human activity.	Christina DeConcini director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute said the US needs a fact based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure homes and businesses.	Sea level rise and coastal flooding driven by climate change pose real significant risks to our residents and should not be politicized he said.	False
Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline.	That aims to ensure development projects arent built in areas where minority populations might not have the resources to defend their rights.	The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice.	Boasberg in his ruling Wednesday said that issue was a closer call than the others but that it still did not justify shutting down the pipeline.	Boasberg ruled on June 14 that the Corps largely complied with environmental law but he ordered the agency to reconsider certain areas of its analysis and took arguments on whether to shut down the 1200 mile 1930 kilometer pipeline while the work is done.	False
If you think of Bernie youd think hed be talking about inequality or civil rights.	Activists freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of Californias deadliest wildfire seem primed for action and the partys progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue thats remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade.	Rising temperatures ranked 15th of 28 issues voters ranked in the questionnaire.	Theres a whole host of progressive issues yet this is the one hes leading with.	Seventy one percent of major televised debates in the 2018 midterm elections ignored the issue completely.	False
They knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater pollute drinking supplies render drinking water unusuable and unsafe and threaten the public health and welfare stated the complaint which claims an underground storage tank likely held the chemical.	At contention is whether the cancer causing chemical hexavalent chromium or chromium 6 came from the base which was designated a federal Superfund site in 1987 for 326 contaminated sites identified for cleanup.	Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984 McClellan had burn and burial pits trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals.	Sacramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply the water districts lawsuit filed in federal court in Sacramento says as part of its claim seeking 1.1 billion in damages.	Chrome 6 is a highly toxic compound and it shouldnt be in the water Victor Sher a San Francisco environmental attorney representing the plaintiffs said Tuesday.	False
I have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration SBA.	UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act.	To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Trumps attempt to halt these clean water protections for mercury lead and arsenic from coal power plants is dangerous and irresponsible said Mary Anne Hitt the director of the Sierra Clubs Beyond Coal campaign.	False
And the question I have is what if youre wrong?	Whether or not thats actually true remains to be seen.	Featured image is a screenshot from the video.	Watch the interview below via YouTube.	He then quickly moved on to accusing President Obama of reimagining authority with his clean power plan and praised Trumps recent executive order undoing environmental regulations that Obama put in place.	False
L1N1KU0UP	In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re engage in the global Paris climate agreement.	Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee voted in favor as did all committee Democrats except for West Virginias Joe Manchin.	Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon the amendments author said on Twitter on Thursday Despite dangerous decision unwillingness to act we can will fight back to combat The amendment passed 16 14.	WASHINGTON Reuters The U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee passed a spending bill on Thursday evening that includes 10 million to help fund the United Nations climate change body that oversees the Paris Climate Agreement despite President Donald Trumps decision to stop funding it.	False
California Democratic Gov.	Fire is not necessarily bad for forests.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	But theres been a change in fire behavior over the last century as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes.	False
Lawyers for Our Children's Trust have argued that government policies have deprived the children of their constitutional rights to life liberty and propertyto dignity to personal security to a stable climate system capable of sustaining human lives and liberties.	Whether those claims should be handled in court presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion the court said then.	WASHINGTON The Supreme Court refused the Trump administration's request Friday to block21 young people from putting a warming planet on trial in Eugene Ore. Theaction keeps alive at least for nowanunusual lawsuit begun in 2015 to force a change in federal environmental policyby declaring a climate systemcapable of sustaining human life a civil right.The lawsuit was broughton behalf of children now ages 11 22as well as future generations.	Legal whiz kid or partisan hack?	More Who is the real Brett Kavanaugh?	False
The transition to accessible and clean energy is a duty that we owe toward millions of our brothers and sisters around the world poor countries and generations yet to come the pope said.	The pope said meeting the energy needs of everyone on the planet must be done in ways that avoid creating environmental imbalances resulting in deterioration and pollution that is gravely harmful to our human family both now and in the future.	Civilization requires energy but energy must not destroy civilization he implored.	Frances also recalled his own appeal in the Laudato Si encyclical for an energy policy aimed at averting disastrous climate changes that could compromise the well being and future of the human family and our common home.	Francis said that modern society with its massive movement of information persons and things requires an immense supply of energy.	False
Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour.	This particular species seems to be very prone to that herd behaviour.	It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says.	It's probably not anything to do with what humans have done.	So what could be behind these cases?	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others.	The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals?	Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more.	Certainly environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of peoples diets in the name of the climate but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health.	False
You're just a garden variety hypocrite like the others.	You would bring about mass death.	House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday saying it goes beyond what our charge is.	Living in the world as it is isnt an argument against working towards a better future.	An early overview of the plan since removed from Ocasio Cortez website promised economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision making and even vowed to eliminate farting cows.	False
But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	wondered one user.	Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one.	False
ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval.	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	It recommends that the world cut emissions to a net zero by the year 2050 to hold back global heating.	According to the ETC website the groups goal is to accelerate change towards low carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius.	The group is made up of energy company executives activists investment bankers Al Gore and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of funds the Daily Caller reports.	False
When capitalism stumbles badly producing degraded lands and gaping inequalities socialistic solutions rise in popularity because their incentives are not tied to profits.	The socialist sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding.	He united a biological and social vision for forestry one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests.	Marshalls closing line argues for that perspective The time has come when we must discard the unsocial view that our woods are the lumbermens and substitute the broader ideal that every acre of woodland in the country is rightly a part of the peoples forests.	TheGreen New Dealand its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth.	Meet the trees get to know their superpowers and learn how scientists are trying to protect them.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
In June three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800000 people.	In July the Federal Reserve fined the firm 246 million for its unsafe and unsound practices in foreign currency trading division failing to crack down on employees who violated rules on sharing information with competitors.	In 2015 the company was ordered to pay 8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan Cuba and Iran.	For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing an aggressive climate policy makes business sense.	The rules also apply to tar sands considered one of the dirtiest sources of oil.	False
While calling Wheeler certainly qualified for this position Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as PruittWheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change.	As you can see we're continuing the president's agenda post haste.	It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote.	While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and for the first time begin regulating a set ofharmful chemicalsfound in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans.	False
It's made us more sustainable environmentally and also economically.	There's no question it's better than putting it in the trash Franczyk says.	His hope is that the concept will spread here.	It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region.	While Whole Foods donates a lot of surplus food to food banks there's a lot waste left over.	False
The decision was praised by industry officials who had called on Pruitt to revisit the rules but environmental groups said he was caving to special interests in the coal industry.	The weakening of automobile standards which is a win for car manufacturers and a blow to environmentalists also sets up a fight between the Trump administration and the state of California which says it plans to stick with the stricter rules.	Pushing to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord Pruitt pushed the White House to leave the Paris climate deal stood beside the President in the Rose Garden when he announced the decision and after the President spoke offered his own remarks.	The move was condemned by global leaders and was seen by many as a setback to efforts to address global warming.	Critics said the rule was overly broad in classifying waterways that are subject to federal rules while supporters see it as a necessary protection for example preventing fertilizer runoff from tainting streams and drinking water.	False
It is the most destructive threat to America and mankind.	The controversy reemerged after the first round of Democratic debates last week.	Climate received 15 minutes of discussion over two nights but the largely superficial discussion of the issue only seemed to strengthen the activists case as key policy proposals such as the Green New Deal and 100 percent renewable energy mandates were virtually ignored.	The result was a pair of resolutions that could come up for a vote at the partys August meeting.	Heres what each of the candidates have said Biden addressed a Greenpeace activist at a campaign rally in Ottumwa Iowa on June 11 Thats what we should be doing he said.	False
This is absolution for those who want to feel green but cant be bothered with going to the effort and expense of actually living their own values.	Personal sacrifice is of little consequence so why even try?	We should make it clear that personal environmental stewardship is not only more effective it is a more moral way to live.	Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day bluster George Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self righteous without making any real sacrifice.	Individual actions are mere bollocks useless gestures.	False
for failing to properly control methane pollution a greenhouse gas.	In 2016 Mr. Schneiderman and the Securities and Exchange Commission announced a 154 million settlement with Barclays and Credit Suisse to resolve allegations that the banks had permitted traders to misuse their dark pool platforms.	Mr. Schneidermans big accomplishment in going after Wall Street were the billions of dollars in penalties that he helped secure from big banks that had sold flawed mortgage backed bonds during the run up to the financial crisis.	But Ms. Polisi added that there had been considerable substance to a number of Mr. Schneidermans investigations as well as some major successes.	He ensured that some of that money went to help communities across the state that were overrun by abandoned houses and foreclosures often referred to as zombie homes.	False
I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally.	Substantively I think you have your thumb wrist forearm and elbow on the scale Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D RI told Wheeler referring to Wheelers past work as a coal lobbyist.	One thing thats important on the regulatory side is that we dont try to tip the scale one way or the other for example on energy sources he said.	When Sen. Jeff Merkley D OR asked Wheeler how he rated climate change in importance on a scale of 1 to 10 Wheeler said it was 8 or 9.	I do consider myself a conservationist he said.	False
That is shameful and that is cowardly Margolin said.	I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves.	But his idea of what that means is very different than the activists' vision.	Can you really look them in the eye and say 'No sorry I couldn't do anything because that country over there didn't do anything so if they're not going to do it then I'm not.'	A Washington Post Kaiser Family Foundation poll this week shows a majority of teenagers believe human caused climate change will cause harm to them.	False
Or so it has been for thousands of years.	A Green Island moss bank with icebergs.Credit Matt Amesbury Antarctica is a cold white continent at the bottom of the world.	another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter who led the research project.	Dr. Matt Amesbury also of the University of Exeter said there were two main findings to take from their new study scale and temperature sensitivity Before now studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites weve been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula.	surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.	False
One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	Recent scientific studies have found that huge reductions in meat eating are essential in order to cut greenhouse gas emissions and avoid dangerous climate change.	The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production.	The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station 248 miles 399 km away from any natural resources.	We are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime anywhere in any condition said Didier Toubia co founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms.	False
Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The leader of the Catholic Church encouraged executives to give up fossil fuels and embrace renewable energy technology.	Majority Whip Steve Scalise and West Virginia Rep. David McKinley introduced a House resolution in April that explicitly condemns a tax on carbon dioxide pollution.	While carbon tax proposals appeared popular at the Vatican it has not garnered the same amount of support in Congress.	False
Theyre trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used.	Youre right there could very well be a new generation coming up saying thats the only environmental issue and its not he said.	He also said that California is playing politics in its fight with the EPA to preserve its more stringent vehicle emission standards as the national standard.	I think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and one that will be held up in court he said.	He said while he encouraged EPA scientists to carry out and publish research he stressed the recent paper did not reflect EPA policy.	False
I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories.	In the Epic of Gilgamesh waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened too Gillis wrote In Indias version Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat carrying seeds.	In the Bible God orders Noah to carry two of every living creature on his ark.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	I dont think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale Terence Hughes a retired glaciologist told Gillis.	False
Lets help bring the death knell to this industry thats done so much harm.	NYCs lawsuit does appear to suggest the intent is not to destroy but rather to mitigate harm.	Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said.	The City does not seek to impose liability on Defendants for their direct emissions of greenhouse gases anddoes not seek to restrain Defendants from engaging in their business operations the city wrote in its complaint.	Judge John Keenan wrote in hisopinionat the time that legislative branch was the appropriate arena to address global warming.	False
What does this all mean for humanity?	Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power medical care to stay healthy enough income to feed their kids education for the children so they can fulfill their potential.	Instead says O'Neill generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet.	The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage in other words using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it.	They range from boosting life expectancy above age 65 to ensuring that at least 95 percent of its adult population has graduated from high school has access to sanitation and earns more than the extreme poverty line of 1.90 a day.	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi.	The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	False
Environmental groups generally support the resolution.	They've got to get an answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences warns Ornstein.	We need not to discourage them she says.	They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.	Jeremy Ornstein 18 says he deferred going to college to work with the organization.	False
They've never seen a category like this come in because it came in really at a five he said.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget told CNN that climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese.	Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth.	Top Trump administration officials have repeatedly dodged questions about how climate change affected the damage done by hurricanes Harvey and Irma saying the issue should be discussed at a later date.	False
I want clean water I want a wealthy country.	And that's what we're doing.	We've become much richer country and that's a good thing not a bad thing because that great wealth allows us to take care of people' Trump said.	That never materialized.	'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water thank you very much everybody I appreciate it thank you' he concluded.	False
Do you know what?	Even you.	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	In the geologic past this type of behavior is associated with mass extinction.	R i g h t. So what youre saying Dr Rothman is that youre allowing plus or minus 10000 years leeway for this mass extinction which wont definitely happen but which may happen.	False
It is after all the measure of ones moral fitness to value some things say forgiveness over others vengeance.	We all hold a hierarchy of values.	For most people of good conscience the value of a human beings life supersedes that of our dog or a backyard plant.	Each individual has values good and bad and they often remain in tension with one another.	That statement not only describes Judass moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern holy as it may be poverty reduction environmental protection or any other earthly mission that does not give a preferential deference to God His creation and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities.	False
It informs decision makers.	Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts.	This type of political interference or scientific censorship whatever you want to call it is ill advised and does a real disservice to the American peopleand public health.	So there is no reason for it to have to be this way.	We can debate the issues we can have different viewpointsbut we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ...	False
When the Times doesnt challenge a pro life message better read closely.	He presents himself as a man who is pro life.	If he is a good pro life believer he must understand that family is the cradle of life and one must defend its unity said Francis who in the past has said that advocates like Mr. Trump of a wall to keep out migrants on the Mexican border were not Christian.	Man is stupid the Bible said he said.	Then he said decide and history will judge the decisions.	False
To Janet this is a moral issue.	March 14 2017 Gallup poll.	Lets take a closer look at this.	These were matters that we have historically agreed on if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildrens future.	Before I address that question I just stumbled upon an article in the August 1 Washington Post.	False
Its pure unadulterated selfishness.	Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives.	Get real.	And there you have it.	This is why deniers exist.	False
They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe.	We would work it out.	Its a danger to the air we breathe.	They must be immediately banned.	No.	False
But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes the BBC reports.	The Bolsonaro regime has reversed previous governments efforts to enforce environmental regulations and protect what is the largest rainforest in the world.	The right wing populist Bolsonaro who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazonhome to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so peoplecame to power in January.	The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right wing President Jair Bolsonaros environmental policies that dont give much thought to the environment at all.	Last monththe far right president accused Inpes director of lying about the scale of deforestationin the Amazon and trying to undermine the government.	False
People across the world must rise to save the planet.	If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up I would say today in Madrid governments fucked up said Mohamed Adow Director of Power Shift Africa.	I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand versus what the climate negotiations are delivering Alden Meyer strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists told AFP.	Alexandria Villasenor a 14 year old climate activist said she was disappointed in the lack of action at COP 25.	It isn't reflective of the kids who are demonstrating on the streets the world over communities being washed away by rising sea levels he said late Saturday.	False
The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	So how do climate activists get their way?	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics.	False
