This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger.	This dystopian idea attracted attention recently after Bernie Sanders brought it up at the last Democrat presidential debate saying people need to be need to curb population growth.	Absent from Bernies argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what itll do to the economy and public services two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about.	Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone!	Are you an insider at Google Facebook Twitter or any other tech company who wants to confidentially reveal wrongdoing or political bias at your company?	True
What do they want?	Fifth to end oppression and bring about the redistribution of power.	Fourth to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone.	I am sympathetic to the first of their aims making the environment a political priority and declaring climate change to be a global emergency.	When do they want it?	True
There is a ship washed ashore she added.	The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque amongst the buildings damaged.	The 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	The dramatic video footage of the tsunami hitting Palu shows the high waves sweeping away several buildings and then the large tilted mosque in the town about 80km from the quake's epicentre.	True
The world must wake up.	Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey retweeted links to a report signed by more than 11000 scientists who argue that the population must be stabilizedand ideally gradually reducedwithin a framework that ensures social integrity.	The crisis touches every aspect of our lives.	Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	Citizens generally are more concerned about getting a good education obtaining better healthcare and achieving political freedoms than they are tackling climate change according to a 2015 survey from the United Nations.	True
Were addressing the issue.	We have our own plan.	Were moving forward.	The analysis comes on the heels of two gut wrenching climate reports one by the United Nations and another authored by scientists from more than a dozen federal agencies in the U.S. that warn the world is running out of time to stave off catastrophic and potentially irreversible climate change.	And the agency is continuing its push to open Alaskas fragile Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling holding public meetings as part of its ongoing environmental review process Alaska Public Media reported.	False
This year it was given a big push in Congress when Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass.	SANDERS CALLS FOR 'REGISTRY OF DISREPUTABLE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS' CUTTING PRISON POPULATION IN HALF The Vermont senator has long been an advocate for the Green New Deal but only this year has it become a central policy for many of those seeking the Democratic nomination for president.	introduced a formal resolution on it which stalled in the Senate but drewsupport from a number of 2020 hopefuls.	In a nod to the social justice part of the plan he says that the deal is an opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social racial and economic justice including redressing the exclusion of black brown Native Americanand other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal.	The plan also promises support for the climate justice movement to take on the fossil fuel industry and other polluters and lead the globe in solving the climate crisis.	False
It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050.	True
Defendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earths climate and sea levels the complaint states.	Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences came together and took courageous action.	This is for you and its real.	A lot of you people are going to be alive and youre going to be alive in a horrible situation Brown told Californian lawmakers at a committee hearing shortly before the vote.	California is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health economy and future said Fred Krupp president of the Environmental Defense Fund.	False
The Associated Presss Jill Colvin and Julie Pace though report that Trumps decision may not be entirely clear cut and that aides continued to deliberate on caveats in the language.	Silicon Valley business leaders like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk have also been arguing that the US should stick to the agreement.	For years now its been clear that blocking environmental regulations and obstructing action on climate change are top Republican Party priorities.	Still withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for Americas role as a global leader.	So the question of whether the US should actually pull out of the agreement has reportedly been the subject of intense debate within the Trump administration.	False
Technology could help here too.	The team's eventual aim is to capture the atoll's whole ecosystem from molecule upwards so it can help local governments and communities evaluate future risks and make better decisions.	The operation only the second ever will be led by Island Conservation a US NGO that protects endangered species by removing invasive ones.	Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando who was keen that it should become an ecological haven it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet.	It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	False
We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life.	Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement expanding drilling on federal lands and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks.	Within the first few months of the year incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them.	Rep. Raul Grijalva the Arizona Democrat tipped to chair the House Natural Resources Committee says Americans can expect the committee to probe the financial costs and public health risks associated with Interior Department policies under Trump.	The Trump administration has targeted dozens of rules.	True
Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil.	You say you hear us and that you understand the urgency.	People are suffering.	Because these numbers are too uncomfortable.	The world is waking up.	False
Doctors will also have to screen patients for adverse childhood experiences that may impact a patients physical or mental health or the provision of health care services to the patient.	It also calls for guidance regarding the identification of students and compliance with applicable nondiscrimination laws which would include the Equality Act if passed by Congress a big legislative priority of congressionalDdemocrats.	Lets take a look at how they intend to use it.	Some of the proposed specifics are harmless such as section 3 which says that the developed policies should prevent and respond to bullying and harassment.	Section G of House Bill No.	True
The authors themselves are anxious that their research is not misunderstood.	To be honest it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time.	These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work.	In reality nothing is quite that straightforward.	But unlike those figures which relied on one line of evidence the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result.	True
The lawsuit was filed in the U.S.	Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.	The world is not flat pollution is not free and the health and safety of our children is not for sale said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra standing alongside the governor.	Brown who has made fighting climate change a core of his policy and political platform said the state's battles with Washington over climate are the most essential.	Pruitt who has sought to block or delay an array of environmental regulations has argued that assumptions about gas prices and vehicle technology used by the Obama administration to set the standards were too optimistic.	True
waterways and pose far reaching effects on the safety of the nation's tap water for more than 100 million Americans.	The Obama administration claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power power in the hands of the federal government over landowners Wheeler said.	Even a child understands that small streams flow into large streams and lakes which provide drinking water for so many Americans said Craig Cox senior vice president for agriculture and natural resources for the EnvironmentalWorking Group.	The debate over the water rule was part of a larger political flashpoint over environmental issues during the 2016 presidential campaign as Trump tried to appeal to rural Americans exasperated by federal regulations and the loss of property rights.	States would overseemost ditches terrain that fills with water during or in response to rainfall certain wetlands that have been used to grow crops stormwater control ponds and water and wastewater treatment systems.	True
It is inherently political like everything else Its in the U.S. Constitution Article 1 Section 8 to promote the progress of science and useful arts.	And my interpretationof the expression useful arts is engineering.	As thousands of activists and scientists around the world gather to March for Science Bill Nye has a U.S. Constitution lesson for Donald Trump that proves he must advance scientific causes.	In an interview on MSNBCs AM Joy Nye said that it explicitly states in the Constitution that the U.S. government must promote the progress of science and useful arts something the Trump administration isnt even close to upholding.	Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration I just want to remind the administration that science is political.	True
Thus our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line Republicans supporting Trump Democrats criticizing him and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story such as statements from experts presented as non partisan voters or opinionated statements from the networks own reporters.	Instead it covers specifically the coverage of President Trumps environmental agenda on ABC World News Tonight CBS Evening News and NBC Nightly News.	The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism.	Methodology Our measure of spin was designed to isolate the networks own slant not the back and forth of partisan politics.	However before stating this position Reynolds noted that most climate scientists the United Nations as well as NASA dismiss these arguments as propaganda for fossil fuels.	True
Assuring that all have life liberty and the pursuit of happiness is a fundamental moral commitment that we share as citizens working together for the common good of all people and the whole creation.	Robert A. Franek is a part of Politicus Policy Discussion in which writers draw connections between real lives and public policy.	Securing the long term future of civil rights for LGBT people womens access to heath care and the flourishing of our environment that we may all enjoy life liberty and the pursuit of happiness rests not only on getting to the bottom of the Trump Russia scandal and draining the swamp in his administration along with the scandal covering right denying profit seeking in Congress but also on preventing the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.	When the air we breathe and the water we drink are imminently threatened so that corporations can make more money life liberty and the pursuit of happiness are on the line.	Rolling back environmental protection regulations and willful denying of scientific data to forestall efforts to fight climate change is a direct threat to each persons right to life liberty and pursuit of happiness.	False
They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos.	He said that the new name needs to appeal to people who are unscientific to help them understand the severity of the problem and inspire them to make more eco friendly life choices and pro climate choices at the ballot box.	Good brand names instill a clear message or even a direct call to action.	In other words it needs to scare people into voting Democrat.	Sometimes a brand name needs to be hyperbolic to truly capture hearts and minds.	False
While this is often extremely frustrating I remain committed to doing the best job I can analyzing data on climate and disasters in ways that are transparent and grounded in evidence.	While political spin doctors often find ways to parse language and statistics to say things that are plausibly defensible but which are ultimately misleading or just wrong for me such misrepresentations have gone too far in an area where I have some considerable expertise Pielke wrote.	Pielkes motivation in releasing an updated version of his book initially published in 2014 was he saw the issue of extreme weather become politicized.	Her call even got a reaction from NPR which defended its reporting but was sympathetic to her message.	Pielkes career beentargetedby Democratic lawmakers and activist journalists to impress a billionaire donor.	False
We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how were going to contribute.	The main concern is the desires of the constituency who are massively opposed to this project Riggi told The Daily Caller New Foundation.	But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	We have an aerial refueling and drone mission there.	Theres an issue with that.	False
Its the biggest threat of all.	Theres no denying the magnitude of the water crisis in the U.S. and abroad.	Early in his tenure former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt prioritized fixing Superfund the struggling and financially strapped program responsible for cleaning up the nations most contaminated sites.	Last years Fourth National Climate Assessment the work of hundreds of scientists at more than a dozen federal agencies including the EPA documents significant changes in water quality and quantity across the country and warns that water security in the United States is increasingly in jeopardy.	Pruitt said that it wasnt a lack of money that was plaguing the program but rather poor leadership and poor focus on the part of the Obama administration.	True
The imagery of pigs feeding at a trough has long been used to describe special interest groups trying to syphon off government spending.	I 1631 will be a trough of billions of dollars of cash for left leaning social action and progressive groups and dealing with climate change will be a secondary priority Mass wrote in a blog post with a picture of pigs feeding at a trough.	I am hopeful that the exposure of such intolerance will lead to an improved working environment in my department and among others in my discipline Mass said via email Wednesday.	Name calling and politicization of science are toxic to the scientific enterprise and undermines our credibility in the general community.	Jay Inslee and other Democrats.	False
Most of us would be excited with any life said Mary Voytek an astrobiology senior scientist for NASA.	While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article.	We still have a long way to go in our understanding said Seewald who was not involved in the study.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	NASA and others are quick to point out this latest discovery does not mean theres life on Enceladus ehn SEHL uh duhs but that there may be conditions favorable for life.	False
But even before the report was made public Americans were extremely worried about climate change.	In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll 83 of Democrats thought the US should be doing more compared to 62 of independents and 26 of Republicans.	That's up from 2010 when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them.	The Trump administration chose to speed up release of the new report which is required by law putting it out on Black Friday instead of in December.	Eight in 10 Democrats 54 of independents and 22 of Republicans thought in August that climate change has an impact the fires.	True
Womens suffrage and womens rights.	The abolition of slavery.	The civil rights movement and the anti apartheid movement in South Africa.	The months ahead will be a test for the American people Gore said on NBC.	If everybodys just completely happy with what youre doing you may not be working hard enough to bring about the kind of change that we need Gore said on CBS.	False
She wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths focusing on environmental justice and enforcement said one of the sources.	At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail.	Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent.	While activist groups say they are generally happy with Harris environmental credentials she has drawn their criticism since launching her presidential bid.	She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe.	True
Media reports suggest that Professor Happer and his fellow propagandists will target the Fourth National Climate Assessment which was prepared by leading researchers in the United States and concluded last November The impacts of climate change are already being felt in communities across the country.	The petition is being circulated for signature by Myron Ebell movement greatest threat freedom says trump adviser myron ebell of the Competitive Enterprise Institute a lobby group for free market fanatics which has become infamous for championing climate change denial It does not disclose its sources of funding but is known to have received money from ExxonMobil and conservative billionaires trump global climate change denial environment such as the Koch brothers.	The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers and the recruitment of supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy echoes the campaign by Joseph Stalins regime to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the disastrous lysenko soviet union russia548786 pseudo scientific theories of Trofim Lysenko.	dire economic forecast climate change dont believe2118152002 Professor Happer who has not published any research on climate change in a reputable science journal has been celebrated for many years by climate change contrarians and deniers around the world.	Although the report was subjected to rigorous review by Americas top experts at the National Academy of Sciences it was rejected by President Trump who told journalists I dont believe it.	True
The Oscar winner said This effort will help the people of Seychelles protect their ocean for future generations and will serve as a model for future marine conservation projects worldwide.	By planning properly to protect our environment we can be sure we are also protecting our people and their livelihoods against an uncertain future.	This is a critical accomplishment in our mission to bring conservation to scale across the globe said Nature Conservancy CEO Mark Tercek.	This trust will offer lower interest rates on debt repayments and any savings will go to fund new projects designed to protect marine life and handle the effects of climate change.	Seychelles President Danny Faure said Our large ocean brings development opportunities but also responsibility.	True
It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	And most engaged in the effort are using chemical flame retardants.	So Im not sure what he was recommending' he told the San Francisco Chronicle.	The only broadly discussed proposal for diverting water away from the Pacific came three years ago from a group calledTree People which called for more Californians to collect rainwater draining off roofs and down concrete streets.	That move gives Californians access to unemployment assistance food aid and legal and mental health counseling and makes federal financial assistance available to cities and counties that will have to repair billions of dollars worth of infrastructure damage.	False
Why do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel said Jim Wilson a 71 year old retired mail carrier from Placerville outside Sacramento.	The state agencies weighed in ahead of a public meeting Thursday in Sacramento the only opportunity for people to register their opinions in person to the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.	Jerry Brown and others to request a similar exemption.	Comments can be submitted online through March 9.	Its critical to keep the dollars at home create the jobs locally instead of sending the money overseas and creating jobs in foreign places he said.	True
U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a reasoned explanation for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	In a way that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy.	As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling the reason she called for the Obama era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a reasoned explanation as to why its flawed.	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda the Trump administration has had one goal in mind destroying former President Obamas environmental legacy.	On Wednesday one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	False
the former secretary of state asked.	I think its somewhat appropriate that somebody with a pseudoscience degree is here pushing pseudoscience in front of our committee Massie said before Kerry fired back.	It sounds like youre questioning the credentials of the presidents advisers but I dont think we should question your credentials today.	But there werent human beings that was a different world folks Kerry said.	Massie asked.	True
Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers but it will come at a price penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers.	A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform.	That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	True
Butte county sheriff Kory Honea has stressed that the roster has been built up from missing person reports from calls reports and emails since the fire began on 8 November.	However it seems likely that number of missing persons may be an over estimate amid confusion over the way the list has been compiled.	He said Managing the forest is part of it.	He has described it as raw data and said there is the likely possibility that the list contains duplicate names and some evacuees who have not reported themselves safe.	I have a strong opinion.	False
People are suffering.	We are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	Caught on camera her stare sparked a thousand tweets and divided the public.	People are dying.	We are all Greta another resistance activist proclaimed sharing a photo of Thunberg scowling at Trump next to a photo of her meeting his predecessor Barack Obama.	True
The next secretary should respect public desire for strong environmental standards and an end to corporate favoritism.	It is high time for the glare of sunlight to focus on Deputy Secretary David Bernhardt.	Unfortunately for the American people Zinke leaves behind a deputy secretary with similar ethical concerns.	And in a statement posted to Twitter the ongoing agency chief said he cannot justify spending thousands of dollars defending myself and my family against false allegations.	Because when America prospers the world is safer.	True
But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good.	It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures.	On many concrete questions he wrote the Church has no reason to offer a definitive opinion she knows that honest debate must be encouraged among experts while respecting divergent views.	The pontiff said that such actions are usually caused by corporations and an elementary sense of justice would require that they be punished for them.	We must introduce we are thinking about it in the Catechism of the Catholic Church the sin against ecology the ecological sin against the common home because it is a duty the pope said Friday in addressing participants in an international conference on penal law.	False
It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state funded green energy projects.	There needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber ready for the governors signatureEnglebright said Friday.	As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers Cuomo is scrambling to act on long neglected progressive demands.	That support cuts across demographics including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites.	The support breaks down similarly across the state with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	False
It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought flood rising seas and other climate impacts.	The Group of Seven gathering the biggest western democracies comprises Britain Canada France Germany Italy Japan and the United States.	Top officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations gathered in Rome Italy today amid growing concerns over the US administration's moves to unravel policies aimed at stalling global warming.	Greenpeace was holding a sit in outside Monday's meeting calling on officials to maintain their commitments to reduce greenhouse gases under the 2015 Paris Agreement.	The Paris Agreement endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC is a bedrock of international action against man made global warming.	False
When its not personal then you revert to what your team has been saying and the values your team has.	As such the agency is often the arbiter between oil gas and mining companies seeking access to valuable resources embedded in public lands and environmentalists seeking to protect the same lands for biodiversity wildlife and recreation.	That means wise use said Land Tawney president of Backcountry Hunters and Anglers a national conservation group headquartered in Montana.	His agency has taken early steps to open the door to oil exploration in Alaskas Arctic National Wildlife Refuge one of the most symbolic and fiercely protected sites of the American environmental movement.	I think the secretary is a fraud.	True
Im working alongside my addministration to formulate a plan of action to swiftly dayliver aids and support to all the suffered comuntitties.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.	Right!	Be the solution not the problem.	But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment.	False
This very negative response that weve gotten from Rover up until now and very recently is pretty uncharacteristic.	The dispute offers a cautionary tale in what one critic described as regulatory capture of a state agency by a company with deep ties to the Trump administration and a reputation as an environmental pariah unafraid to deploy scorched earth tactics against its opponents.	In the same email Arnold called the OEPA staff among if not the most honest and helpful people Ive encountered.	Theyve pointed us in the right direction so we could build the pipeline and stay within their good graces.	Theyve offered options when we were stuck.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	No matter what the answer is most or all of it.	Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is contributing to climate change Icant tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity.	Its as simple as that.	Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet.	False
It undermines America's standing in the world and threatens to damage humanity's ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	We can and we must do both.	In order to unleash the power of the American economy our government must encourage production of American energy.	President Trump acted in America's best interest moving away from a flawed agreement that placed too heavy a burden on American jobs and opening the door to a new agreement that reaches the right balance.	This damages our nation's reputation as an international leader and puts future generations at risk to the threat of climate change.	False
This is a ballot measure that commits Nevada to getting 50 percent of its energy from renewable sources by 2030.	They also play a huge role in how federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act are enforced.	Sisolak for example campaigned on his support Question 6 one of the few state clean energy ballot initiatives that passed on Tuesday.	In fact as governor I would like to get us on the road to 100 percent Sisolak said in a campaign ad.	Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U turn going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025.	False
RH The government is trying to update using the latest available information.	RH The types of mitigation efforts youre talking about are critical.	The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity.	And that has to be a key component of all strategies.	But there are a lot of other factors that impact vulnerability as well.	True
Some environmental organizations including the Nature Conservancy and the World Resources Institute are endorsing the plan.	He added that protection from liability would be important to Exxon which is under investigation for its past statements and actions on climate change.	The plans Republican authors include James A. Baker III and George P. Shultz both former secretaries of state and Henry M. Paulson Jr. a former secretary of the Treasury.	Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking Steven Chu a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama Michael R. Bloomberg the former New York mayor and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata.	Along with the oil companies the plans corporate backers include Johnson Johnson Unilever PepsiCo and Procter Gamble.	False
As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitts conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement however its important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting.	As I told EPA in my testimony Families are looking to EPA to solve the coal ash problem not abandon them.	One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said What are you doing?	Just two days earlier people from across the US came to Washington to testify at EPAs lone public hearing on Pruitts proposed rollbacks of protections from toxic coal ash.	Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants.	False
Congress should address that at some point.	My focus has to be on ... these areas that I described he said.	... Those are things so important to citizens of Florida right now and to discuss the cause and effect of these storms there's the... place and time to do that it's not now.	And with all respect really that's where I have to focus on.	To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	True
Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately.	As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case.	With the case currently tied up in appeals the plaintiffs wanted to make sure the current state of affairs with respect to climate change doesnt get worse as the wheels of justice slowly turn.	Indeed Plaintiffs by their present motion are essentially making a bid in this Court for a substitute mini trial or trial lite which is premature until the pure issues of law now being briefed in this interlocutory appeal are appropriately resolved as a threshold matter wrote attorneys for the US Department of Justice.	In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system.	False
Set aside for the moment the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours seven consecutive hours of prime time programming to the subject.	Ending oil and gas exploration and extraction on public lands.	4.	5.	Clearly CNN wanted to make a political statement about how important it thinks climate change ought to be in the election.	True
Roxanne Quimby co founder of Burts Bees cosmetics and her foundation purchased tracts of land in the northern reaches of Maine with the purpose of creating a national park.	In the 1960s US astronauts used the area to train for lunar missions.	A huge monument spanning nearly 500000 acres and proclaimed in May 2014.	The area was protected to safeguard an ecosystem of deep sea corals three species of whale and an endangered species of sea turtle the Kemps ridley.	It is considered by the Fish Wildlife Service as the most important seabird habitat in the region.	True
That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	Minus 3 is not that far from zero Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times.	Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released.	As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost.	In order to know how much is lost you have to know how much is there Sue Natali a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times.	False
They dont want to be informed.	They dont want to do the research Zinke said.	This has to do with active forest management.	What makes Zinkes statements during his trip to California so astonishing is that they come two days after he stressed the importance of being informed and open minded.	And they dont want to expand their paradigm and look at the actual facts.	False
The people have been heard and will continue to be heard Brune said.	Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club released a statement saying that millions of Americans concerned about the dangers of offshore drilling will not be drowned out regardless of the oil lobbys influence over Trump.	This deprives our country of potentially thousands and thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in wealth.	Though similar to last weeks March for Science the march on Saturday will focus on Trumps efforts to remove regulations intended to protect the environment and curb climate change rather than scientific integrity.	Trumps signing of the America First Offshore Energy Strategy comes a day before the Peoples Climate March an international protest against Trumps energy and environmental policies.	False
We're running out of time to act.	We can embrace the energy of activism to move our partys goals forward.	They asked me to join them and I did Ocasio Cortez tweeted of her involvement with members of the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats who visited several elected officials offices in the building.	The progressive Democratic newcomer from New York joined more than 100 environmental youth activists on Tuesday for a sit in inside House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosis Capitol Hill office to encourage a deal to transition to a 100 percent renewable energy based economy to fight climate change.	Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy.	True
The president's primary aim the directive states is promoting domestic manufacturing and job creation.	Another would permit the EPA to discount many studies used as the basis for air quality standards for a lack of transparency because those analyses use individual health datathat cant be disclosed because they're protected under federal privacy laws.	One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an expresspriority saidJohn Walke director of theNatural Resources Defense Council's clean air program.	The memo encourages reliance on air pollution modeling for deregulatory purposes or permits desired by industry but not for regulatory purposes that would better protect Americans he said.	These actions are intended to ensure that EPA carries out its core missions of protecting the environment and improving air quality in accord with statutory requirements while reducing unnecessary impediments to new manufacturing and business expansion essential for a growing economy the presidentsaid in a statement accompanying the order.	False
ORourke the former Texas congressman made climate change the focus of his first major policy announcement unveiling the plan ahead of a campaign stop meeting with scientists at the iconic Yosemite National Park in California.	The greatest threat we face which will test our country our democracy every single one of us is climate change ORourke said in a statement.	Beto claims to support the Green New Deal but his plan is out of line with the timeline it lays out and the scale of action that scientists say is necessary to take here in the United States to give our generation a livable future said Sunrise founder Varshini Prakash.	Environmental group the League of Conservation Voters on Monday praised ORourkes plan saying that it offered the kind of leadership we need from the next president.	ORourkes measures include U.S. re entry into the Paris Climate Agreement ordering a reduction in methane emissions from oil and gas operations halting new drilling leases on federal land and restoring pollution standards for power plants.	False
I want to go beyond those issues said Del.	You have in my opinion a Commonwealth that wants to see that.	Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for.	Virginia Del.	You have members who have been in our caucus and who will be coming into our caucus that want to see that happen she added.	False
Namely that priority is climate change.	These records reveal Trumps active censorship of science in the name of his political agenda said Meg Townsend open government attorney at the Center for Biological Diversity.	To think that federal agency staff who report about the air water and soil that sustains the health of our nation must conform their reporting with the Trump administrations anti science rhetoric is appalling and dangerous for America and the greater global community.	Please visit with your staff and make them aware of this shift in perspective within the executive branch.	Some staff werent enamored with the new regime with one employee stating on an email on 5 July that we would prefer to keep the language as is and stressing the need to maintain the scientific integrity of the work.	False
Its part of a national campaign from environmental activists to push public officials to say no to money from the coal oil and natural gas industries.	But the test of these election promises will be in how theyre implemented.	Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top tier concern.	Candidates like Joshua Cole who won the election for Virginias 28th House District campaigned on environmental action including upgrading infrastructure to make it more resilient and deploying clean energy.	Like the Green New Deal resolution introduced in the US Congress Virginias version aims to move the state to 100 percent renewable energy while pursuing social welfare programs like job retraining for workers who would lose their jobs in the transition.	True
Im concerned because it affects their health.	Not just our children.	Schneider an associate professor in the geography department said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years.	The kids are affected the most.	They have problems breathing.	True
Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil.	You say you hear us and that you understand the urgency.	People are suffering.	Because these numbers are too uncomfortable.	The world is waking up.	True
We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns he said.	The US will consider its interests first as it reviews its climate change policy the secretary of state says.	We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States.	Although the logic of the statement insists that human activity is causing climate change the word human is not actually present.	But a couple of things are missing.	True
What is being done here is an atrocity against us.	We need the forest and our children need the forest.	We feel the climate changing and the world needs the forest.	For us this is destruction.	These devastating images show an indigenous family surveying the ruins of their homeland in the Amazon rainforest.	False
Regeneration International a sustainable farming nonprofit organized the missive with the climate justice group Sunrise Movement.	Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass.	We call on Congress to put the Green in the Green New Deal Wednesdays letter reads by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this countrys middle class to make family farming economically viable again and to help reverse climate change and improve Americas air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again.	Farmers supported the Trump administrations proposal last week tofinalize the rollback of the Obama era Waters of the U.S. rule which had put new restrictions on which waterways agribusiness could pollute.	The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10000 members.	False
EVIL' His plan which he is putting forward in a House resolutioninvolves a number of planks including revisitingglobal trade and intellectual property policies to create an international marketplace fair to American innovators.	The question for America is pretty simple either we want a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington telling us what we cant do or we empower American innovators to unlock things that we can do the Florida congressman said at a press conference in front of the Capitol building.	In the press conference Gaetz made references to FAQs released by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs D N.Y. office that said the deal aims to upgrade or replace every building for energy efficiency and render air travel unnecessary while joking about getting rid of farting cows.	Whats more it is presented as a collection of bold new ideas yet most of them are policies and programs that exist and arent working.	Gaetz's planalso aims to modernize the electric grid which he says currently functions as a wet blanket over American innovation.	False
The people believe them.	The Illinois based group which hasties to the fossil fuel billionaires who run Koch Industries boasted in July that the White House reached out for help identifying scientists for these debates.	The people believed them he wrote in a December 2015 blog post.	The names included on the list suggest that the Heartland Institute wants the debate to go directly after the scientific and legal underpinnings of the EPAs regulations on climate change.	Calls for the red team blue team exercise began in April one month before the date marked on the top of the documents.On April 20 the day before the March for Science protest in Washington D.C. New York University physicist Steve Koonin published an op ed in The Wall Street Journal calling for a red team blue team exercise to put the consensus to the test and improve public understanding through an open adversarial process.	True
This is important because...	Why is the difference so important?	So the basis of all previous disagreements stems from who gets access to what.	It covers areas such as the management of natural resources territorial rights and the environment.	It is an important step in the easing of regional tensions but the deal over the world's largest inland body of water matters for several reasons.	False
Roll Call Michael Macagnone The Council on Foreign Relations Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters granting political agency dividing up federal funds and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations.	NBC29 CJ Paschall Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses.	Buzzfeed News Otillia Steadman If a person can accomplish all of that positivity with so little imagine what they could do with a little bit of support and encouragement.	While it is supposed to prevent individuals from being identified within data sets it is skewing data and producing problems in the analysis.	This story is part of a group of stories called Vox Sentences is your daily digest for whats happening in the world.	True
In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	4 priority and voters of color in that age range ranked it No.	3.	Polling Data for Progress released in September pegged the number slightly higher at 55 percent of eligible U.S. voters but found that those opposed decreased from 23 percent to 18 percent when the guaranteed jobs are green.	And so weve been here before and we have a blueprint of doing this before.	False
Of course the purpose of studies such as these which remarkably continue to receive funding is ultimately practical rather than speculative.	They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory.	Event attributionthe ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warmingis exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst even according to true believers.	If attributing changes in migratory patterns of songbirds to global warming after a mere 12 years of observation strikes readers as highly suspicious thats probably because it is.	Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude with unusual modesty that better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming.	False
By using this alternative approach we are able to highlight where there are operational risks.	The report reads like an introductory primer and carries about as much value as a phonebook he said.	It lists a few projects the defense department has undertaken with partner countries and notes the need to consider how drought and desertification impact overseas bases and missions.	The Pentagon did not answer multiple questions from CNN including why it failed to meet Congress' request to list the 10 most vulnerable installations why it mentioned no military installations outside the US or why the climate factors it considered did not include extreme weather and why Camp Lejeune isn't listed among the 79 installations.	The report also raised very briefly the logistical challenge weather conditions can create for intelligence collection surveillance and reconnaissance as well as recovery and casualty evacuation.	False
Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach.	We know they are on the front lines to protect our land and groundwater from petroleum leaks such as those from gas stations and other underground storage tank facilities and we expect this partnership will continue to be a hallmark of the program.	But state officials environmental activists and public health advocates warn that the size of the cut carries great risk considering groundwater is the source of drinking water for nearly half of all Americans.	Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs but a taxpayer funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly are abandoned or when owners dont have the resources.	False
The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43 page document which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry.	They're using stall tactics to defer action ignoring the courts and the demands of the American people.	Liz Perera climate policy director for the Sierra Club said repealing the Clean Power Plan is about one thing and one thing only helping corporate polluters profit.	The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers said Hal Quinn president and CEO of the National Mining Association.	The plan was first reported by Bloomberg News.	False
This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations said David Doniger senior strategic director of the Climate Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science public safety and reality said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	This is the latest in a series of efforts the Trump administration has taken to help the coal business.	By replacing onerous regulations with high yet achievable standards we can continue America's historic energy production keep energy prices affordable and encourage new investments in cutting edge technology that can then be exported around the world said Wheeler.	Environmental groups argue that in order to reduce climate change risks the world will have to stop burning coal.	True
We need to better anticipate support requirements similar to those of people fleeing other unviable situations.	Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements.	It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.	If only theyd done their study a bit earlier they could have saved a lot of alarmists a lot of worry.	True
Gore asked.	Eskridges plight to save his island reached mainstream media attention when President Donald Trump called him after seeing a CNN report about the disappearing islands Trump supporting mayor.	Gore is currently making the rounds to publicize the sequel to his global climate documentary An Inconvenient Truth.	Recentlyhe said that the global warming fight was in the same vein as great moral causes of humanity in the past like the Civil Rights cause of the 60s and abolition.	But Im just not seeing it he said.	False
We contest the common narrative that past human environment interactions must always be one of over exploitation and degradation.	Dr. Chris Brierley UCL Geography lead author said The possibility that humans could have had a stabilising influence on the environment has significant implications.	Dr. Katie Manning King's College London concluded Despite the largely inhospitable conditions of the Sahara today it is not hard to find evidence of human occupation from the last 11000 years.	The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape does not support the scenario of over exploitation.	It is likely that strategies used by contemporary traditional herders such as seasonal movement and selective grazing were also used by these early pastoralists helping to maintain an otherwise deteriorating ecosystem.	True
I would love to understand this logic.	Right?	This is honesty sp about how Democrats would micromanage private life.	Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right?	Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	False
The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request fromthe Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama era policy known as the Clean Power Plan.	Schneiderman hired Howard Master a prosecutor who served under an Obama appointed U.S. attorney to focus on corruption cases involving the Trump administration.Masters primary responsibility according to Schneidermans office will be investigating and possibly prosecuting the Trump administration for possible civil rights abuses.	Master will be working on a wide range of civil and criminal investigations and enforcement matters including public corruption complex civil litigation Eric Soufer a spokesman for Schneiderman told WSJ.	The coalition of states argued in a statement the delay would waste the substantial resources already expended in this litigation according to a statement from the group.	Hehas engaged in a months long investigation into whether Exxon Mobilillegally hid internal climate research from the public and shareholders.	False
It demonstrates the agencys dedication to advancing President Trumps agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty he said.	Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a not for profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	They recognised us as the pre eminent organisation opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote.	Its not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing.	The EPA maintains close working relationships with a broad range of public and private groups and Heartland is just one of many the agency engages with to ensure the public is informed said the EPA spokesman Lincoln Ferguson.	False
Like this story?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	wondered one user.	Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses.	True
She said in a statement that unlike Pruitt Wheeler understands the mission of the EPA and acts in accordance with ethical standards.	I believe immediate action must be taken and these efforts lack a sense of urgency Manchin said.	Like Collins Manchin also said he was concerned at EPAs attempt to undo rules designed to limit emissions of mercury which can damage the brains of infants and young children.	During his time as acting administrator Andrew Wheeler has been seen as a thoughtful leader who understands the need for sensible environmental policies said Michelle Bloodworth the groups president and CEO.	However the policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	True
It's an idea the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization is encouraging too.	I ask a three year old what she thinks.	The sea is full of them and it's a big problem for biodiversity says Silvio Greco describing jellyfish as rampant opportunistic species that immediately take over any empty space in the water.	She was probably hungry too.	I select my piece.	False
RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	350.org an international environmental group is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video.	Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	Now we will make our voices heard.	The group strongly references the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes 2018 report which claims the world only has a few year to dramatically reduce carbon emissions or else face dire environmental consequences.	False
That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require.	This is going to be the Great Society the moon shot the civil rights movement of our generation she said.	Speakers included 350.org founder Bill McKibben The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones activist and Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinezand MayorDale Rossof deep red Georgetown Texas whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism.	Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. who has made championing a so called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday.	In the 2016 presidential election Sanders staked out the most ambitious climate platform of any candidate vowing to slash carbon dioxide pollution 40 percent by 2030 end fossil fuel subsidies and ban fracking.	True
Following Hollywood convention once you got past the part where the maverick scientist or precocious kid discovering it struggles to convince the world about the threat youd expect the president or the military to leap into action.	Another problem which compounds the first is that they get greedy.	But sometimes it takes a stunt to expose an even bigger one.	First they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility.	By working on the theory that they have to scare the bejeebus out of the public they made it easy for people to dismiss them when their Chicken Little prophecies didnt materialize.	True
H. Sterling Burnett Ph.D. hburnett is a research fellow on energy and the environment at The Heartland Institute a nonpartisan nonprofit research center headquartered in Arlington Heights Illinois.	CPP and the other climate regulations imposed by the Obama administration were justified based on the EPAs determination carbon dioxide poses a threat to human health and the environment a concept known as the endangerment finding.	Relying on unsubstantiated projections produced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the EPA determined carbon dioxide emissions from cars and industry threaten human welfare.	CPP was the centerpiece of the Obama administrations effort to move the United States away from the use of fossil fuels beginning with coal to fight climate change.	In truth this presents a problem for Trump.	False
And they say their work could be relevant to places beyond our own planet that may have harsher environments than today's Earth.	But the researchers took great pains to test for contamination account for the exposure to heat and pressure and extrapolate back the original ratios Pinti said.	It adds to evidence that the Earth at that time had surface water and other conditions to support life and wasn't as hot and as inhospitable as scientists used to think said Daniele Pinti a geochemist at the University of Quebec at Montreal.	The discovery will provide insight into early life not only on Earth but also on other planets.	That makes them harder to analyze but not impossible.	True
We need a vision and a plan to not willful ignorance.	Three options were reportedly presented in the memo The first was to conduct red teamblue teamdebates to highlight uncertainties in climate data the second was to review scientific studies under the Administrative Procedure Act and the final option was to simply ignore and not seek to characterize or question the science being conducted by Federal agencies and outside entities.	The reports lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human caused climate change.	Ignoring the overwhelming evidence only sets us back further in addressing this serious threat said Sen. Jeanne Shaheen D N.H..	Unacceptable and immoral.	True
We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated.	Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels.	Wed even settle for a coherent policy to tackle it rather than make it worse Poole told Yahoo News.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	I cannot speak to that.	False
This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle.	Mr President start listening to the people and the scientists not the greed of the fossil fuel industry Sanders said at a rally on Capitol Hill where he was flanked by environmental advocates and two of his Democratic colleagues Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon who authored the bill and Ed Markey of Massachusetts.	The partisan nature of the debate was not lost on the audience as one attendee interrupted the proceedings to ask Where are the Republicans?	There is no excuse for failure.	At the rally Markey said Trumps actions were precisely why hundreds of thousands of people felt compelled to take to the streets.	False
If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing.	Because who knows what a snail is worth?	Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that the value of life on earth is priceless and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is too expensive to prevent extinction.	The US government says they want the language clarified to make it clear that it extends only as far as wildlife officials can reasonably determine that both the future threats and the species' response to those threats are probable.	Who knows what a frog is worth?	True
We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air land and water our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency said JP Freire an associate administrator for public affairs.	At the marquee climate protest the Peoples Climate March in Washington tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House.	Previously the website housed data on greenhouse gas emissions from large polluters and reports on the effects of climate change and its impact on human health.	In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it.	True
'Americans want reliable energy that they can afford' he said at a news conference.	According to data from the US Energy Information Administration hydroelectric dams solar panels and wind turbines generated 68.5 million megawatt hours of energy during the month of April 2019.	In April for the first time ever the US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal in a single month.	However experts noted that several coal plants were down for routine maintenance in April and the month saw an increase in wind generation and a drop in energy demand.	Despite this areport from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis IEEFA said that the trend could potentially extend into the month of May.	True
RELATED Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administrations Event At UN Meeting Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy.	Initiative 1631 for example was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Some conservatives have signed on to the idea believing it to be a market based approach to eliminating pollution.	True
Literally the future of the world depends on us.	Ill tell you what I havent seen anything better that addresses the singular crisis we face a crisis that could at its worst lead to extinction he said.	Now as the former US congressman vies to be the Democratic candidate to run against Donald Trump in the 2020 race for the White House he faces much closer scrutiny on the subject.	Given Texass critical importance to the environmental and economic future of the country a Texas presidential candidate can deliver a powerful green narrative said Luke Metzger executive director of Environment Texas an advocacy group.	Environmental advocates and experts wait to see if as ORourke pivots from an election in a conservative led oil state to a national primary race heavily influenced by left leaning Democratic candidates he will have more latitude and desire to put progressive green policies at the heart of his strategy.	False
The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that.	The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally.	Together those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions including more than 40 of methane.	Scientists and economists have been studying the effects of our diets on the environment for years.	The new report adds weight and detail to a warning put out by the same panel of scientists last fall in which they sounded the alarm about the inadequacy of the pledges countries have made so far to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	False
And to me the answer is innovation.	They end up helping certain wealthy people to the disadvantage of the less fortunate.	But the question is What do we do about it about whatever risk there is?	Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal.	Its one thing to be an ignorant fool but its quite something else to allow ones malicious ignorance to potentially threaten the entire planet Mann said.	True
As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	And to say its not to say youre going to get rid of nuclear really you are handicapping and undermining our ability to get to the ambitious goals we must have.	Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus.	The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia Washington D.C. for anexclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world.	False
These people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this timehe added referring to the Trump administration.	To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator.	The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor.	Hurricane Irma rampaged through the Caribbean before slamming into Florida as a Category 5 beast knocking out power for millions and ultimately killing 69 people.	On Tuesday afternoon Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt who sued to halt the plan last year when he was Oklahomas attorney general released a proposal to eliminate the policy without any replacement leaving the country without a national strategy to adapt to global warming.	True
Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data.	RELATED Its The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming Until The Next Chance When it comes to droughts for example the IPCC admits there is low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale.	For example The Washington Posts write up of the IPCCs report focused on the mainline findings namely that the world is woefully off target to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	The New York Times highlighted the IPCCs warning of a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires and a mass die off of coral reefs as soon as 2040.	The IPCCs new report is meant to sound the alarm on global warming ahead of the UN climate summit which is to be held in Poland this December.	False
Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions.	We are here today because our climate is under threat Mr. Vella said.	The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a point of no return is to be found in political will.	In a major report last week the prestigious UK journal The Lancet suggested that pollution of air and water rather than carbon induced global warming is the real crisis facing the world one being overlooked by environmental activists.	In the Popes written message to the meeting conveyed by the Vaticans Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world as well as his fervent desire that the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses.	False
It's political and it's practical.	But the practical aspect is the world demands integration and work on these things.	They need to be more thoughtful.	This really is about interaction economic development.	And they need to be inclusive.	False
This gives you an idea of just how badly infected are the nations of the free world by the green virus.	Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public.	We think wererational but where green policy is concerned were little better than the Aztecs Oh and by the way the way were carrying on Western Civilization is on its way out	This should always have been obvious.	Here are some of the highlights Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti Christian society If science was all about consensus wed still be living in caves Greens want to make life nasty brutish and short Wheres the evidence for climate catastrophe?	True
Like this story?	Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State.	Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower.	The Westinghouse fuel factory turns uranium into several types of fuel for nuclear reactors.	According to the commission the hole goes six feet down into the soil below the Westinghouse factorys concrete floor.	False
The organizers said their goal was to shut down the center of decision making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy.	Ahead of the days United Nations Climate Action Summit in New York activists participated in Shut Down D.C. a coordinated act of civil disobedience designed to draw attention to the global climate crisis.	A press release from the events organizers said that Mondays protesters included labor organizations the anti war group Code Pink Black Lives Matter and the environmental justice organization Rising Tide North America.	Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal additional measures to protect indigenous peoples land and a broad push toward climate justice.	pic.twitter.comJhjVBr1hU3 Sam Sweeney September 23 2019 Mondays protests come on the heels of a worldwide climate strike on Friday a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the largest climate rally ever.	True
Like this story?	Biden's campaign waited the better part of a day to address the charges as the news spread buoyed by anger at the candidate over news he'd lied about marching in the civil rights movement finally telling Business Insider that while they had inadvertently left out several citations from the final version of the document posted to the website it had been updated to include references.	Caught in a pile of lies the campaign responded with a strikingly similar excuse To the degree it wasn't attributed it was an oversight or inadvertent Biden's 1988 campaign aide told the New York Times.	The campaign claims it merely left out the citations.	At least three passages from the climate plan Biden's campaign released on Tuesday were copied directly from environmental organizations CREDO activist Josh Nelson tweeted posting original text from the Carbon Capture Coalition and the Blue Green Alliance alongside text from Biden's campaign website.	False
They can sense that we are making an impact.	None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	None 'Five Eyes' in the dark Will Trump and Barr destroy trust in U.S. intelligence?	Now what does he want?	They obviously dont want that.	False
This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible.	... We have to do it ourselves.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	And it's incomprehensible to me that there's no sense of urgency from the federal government.	The security of lower Manhattan should be a national priority.	False
With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria it cannot be ignored any longer.	The truly maddening part though is that Merkley showed the American people that its not just ignorance its intentional ignorance.	Merkley continued For the rest of the questioning Merkley continued to show just how woefully ignorant the officials in charge of the Environmental Protection Agency are.	A five year old could easily note that they do indeed follow each other.	Wehrum tried to sleazily worm his way out of answering the simple question.	True
Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society.	In a first Washington Gov.	Though founded and run by a former utility lawyer the company as its name suggests transferred a majority stake in its ownership to a consortium of Native American tribes in 2005.	Sanders has also drawn heat recently for his uncertain stance on reparations for the descendants of slaves and for quietly hiring a journalist who frequently attacked his 2020 opponents on Twitter as an adviser.	In 2007 former Iowa Gov.	False
Meanwhile he doesnt want to sacrifice the economic well being of our country for something that nobody really knows.	Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA said Democrats should focus on the practical and the opportunistic in the short term while working toward big picture aspirational goals in the long term.	It projected that humans have until 2030 to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we want to avoid catastrophic climate change in the form of massive sea level rise increased drought permafrost melt and coral reef die offs.	Trump may believe in climate change now but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have a very big political agenda.	While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive he is now convinced that somethings changing and itll change back again according to aninterviewhe gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday.	False
They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson Elon Musk and Bill Gates in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton.	To answer that question Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live.	Can we really be sure that these people take carbon emissions seriously?	You can tell by the outraged looks on their faces and the purple rhetoric Carlson said.	Branson says fossil fuels are dangerous and he calls Trumps decision America first Earth last.	True
they all ask.	We are hungry Were tired and weak Our babies are sick the plants and animals complain.	It also includes a Message for Adults Acid rain is a problem that affects us all The message to spread however is that we can all make a difference and help reduce the presence of acid rain.	What is doing this to us?	asks Frannie Frog.	True
So anyone who cares about extinctions and biodiversity needs to care about the future of coral reefs.	This team of researchers advocates rat eradication projects on islands throughout the world.	The reefs and their abundance of marine life provide livelihoods for millions of people around the world so the decline in coral reefs is poised to become a humanitarian crisis.	By killing seabirds this study revealed rats disrupt a healthy ecosystem that depends on the seabird droppings which fertilise the reefs surrounding the island.	He and his team were able to track the source of those nutrients back to the fish that seabirds fed on by analysing algae and sponges growing on the reef.	False
RFS founder and former commissioner Phil Koperberg told the Sydney Morning Herald People are nervous and they have a right to be... the worst is yet to come.	Some firefighters have expressed concern that volunteer numbers might not be enough and that there are inadequate water supplies.	What's the latest on the ground?	How are animals faring in the fires?	Since October bushfires have killed six people and destroyed more than 700 homes across Australia.	False
We're not looking to have our light bills cheaper we're looking to stay here said Deborah Pruitt 57 who works at the island's museum where printouts of news reports about the island are displayed on a wall.	I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said.	Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler.	Often they say people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to.	At a dinner attended by island residents Aug. 2 the activists from RepublicEn headed by former Republican Congressman Bob Inglis laid out the stakes The sea level is rising and some scientists estimate that within decades the island already suffering severe erosion will need to be abandoned.	False
By deporting hundreds of thousands of Central Americans from the United States the administration like the Obama administration before it is bolstering gang recruitment in countries like El Salvador according to a December report from the International Crisis Group.	Under those conditions more than 1 billion people globally could be forced to flee their homes by 2050 and2 billion by 2100.	The president attempted to cut funding forUnited States Agency for International Development by 33 percent this year though bipartisan support for the federal governments dedicated aid agency staved off the proposal.	A quasi fascist policy of fear mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trumps response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos said Ashley Dawson author ofExtreme Cities The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change.	Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress.	True
What risks do protesters take?	Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience especially among young people.	Meanwhile they plan to organise in so called affinity groups of up to 10 people of similar physical fitnessand a willingness to be arrested for trespassing and other offences.	Lecuyer says that some activists experience a form of trauma ... due to the high emotions from stress and excitement and the physical effort because you have to walk for miles in groups to the target pass police roadblocks sometimes under water cannon or pepper spray and then hold the blockade.	Here is a look at this growing form of environmental activism.	False
University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	Brown is right in one sense.	California Democratic Gov.	California does have miles to go to meet Browns executive order because it relies on magical thinking and science fiction according to experts.	True
It demonstrates the agency's dedication to advancing President Trump's agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty he said.	They recognized us as the pre eminent organization opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote.	Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a non profit promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	It's not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing.	If you send a list we will make sure an invitation is sent Konkus wrote to then Heartland president Joseph Bast in May 2017 seeking suggestions on scientists and economists the EPA could invite to an annual EPA public hearing on the agency's science standards.	True
This is a higher number than either of the reports from 2017 and 2018.	About 141 million Americans live with unhealthful levels of air pollution the report says placing them at risk for premature death lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	The boom in people brings an increase in cars and trucks on the roads and many of those people live in valleys and basins right where pollution tends to settle.	The bad news came fromthe American Lung Association's annual State of the Air report which covers the years 2015 2017.	The report covers the two main types of air pollution that plague the USA smog also known as ground level ozone and soot technically known as particulate matter.	False
Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health.	Hes calculating.	Other analysts shared similar sentiments.	Ocasio Cortezs office provided NPR the GND resolution and its accompanying FAQ document that laid out its goals namely to move America to 100 clean and renewable energy within 10 years.	It also stated that the GND would provide benefits for people unwilling to work.	True
As the CEO of one of Americas historically coal dependent utilities Tom Fanning of the Southern Company says You cant keep waves off the beach.King Canute knew this.	The world rightfully worries when they hear Donald Trump proclaim he is going to bring back coal and watch the administration and the Republican Congress try to roll back such common sense requirements limits on the wasteful flaring and leaking of methane from oil and gas fields.	The Mars Candy Company recently committed a billion dollars to ensure that its operations and supply chain would reduce their climate impact by 67 percent by 2050.	Lets begin with bringing back coal.	The American political conversation about climate is indeed scary and depressing.	True
Its a matter of survival former Kiribati President Anote Tong said after meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama that year.	That warning was made in 1988 amid heightened urgency about global warming.	Instead Duvatfound that more than 70 percent of the Maldives Huvadhoo islands were stable and that 6 percent had increased in size and only 23 percent decreased in size.	That may come as a shock in light of reports that Pacific Islanders in places like Kiribati are becoming climate refugees because of rising sea levels which many scientists blame on greenhouse gas emissions.	The study findings may seem counter intuitive given that sea level has been rising in the region over the past half century but the dominant mode of change over that time on Tuvalu has been expansion not erosionKench said in February.	False
Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed.	Though not surprising this is extremely troubling.	In the late 90s Koch Industries invested in an aerospace company Pompeo founded with fellow West Point alumni.	Tiernan Sittenfeld senior vice president of government affairs for the League of Conservation Voters said in a statement that Pompeos nomination is profoundly disturbing but not unexpected.	Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community she said.	False
I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result.	Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California.	Some people say 2035 some people say 2040 she said.	For example California could use vehicle registration rules or control the vehicles that can access state highways she said.	False
This rule supports the administrations objective of facilitating energy dominance by encouraging increased domestic oil and gas production and reducing unnecessary burdens on stakeholders while ensuring safety and environmental protection the new rule says.	The Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement which was established after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico and regulates offshore oil and gas drilling has finalized a proposal for loosening the regulations as part of President Trumps efforts to ease restrictions on fossil fuel companies and encourage domestic energy production.	Want climate news in your inbox?	The rules created potentially unduly burdensome requirements for oil and natural gas production operators on the Outer Continental Shelf without meaningfully increasing safety of the workers or protection of the environment says the new 176 page rule which is scheduled in the coming days to be published in the Federal Register before becoming the administrations final policy.	WASHINGTON The Trump administration has completed its plan to roll back major offshore drilling safety regulations that were put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster in 2010 that killed 11 people and caused the worst oil spill in American history.	False
Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world.	Senator Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel said Once again President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain.	Local action by itself is not likely to be enough.	Nate Hultman director of the University of Marylands center for global sustainability and lead author of this years Americas Pledge report pointed to new laws in New Mexico Nevada Washington Maine New York Washington DC and Puerto Rico for 100 clean energy targets.	Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product.	False
Whoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went onto the streets will need to deliver now said Sven Giegold a leading candidate for the German Green party that scooped up more than 20 of the vote nationwide an increase of almost 10 compared with 2014.	I think people realize that there are issues you cant solve at the national level he said.	Giegold the German Greens lead candidate said voters expect the party to deliver on its environmental pledges not secure powerful posts in the executive European Commission.	People didnt take to the streets to elect or kick out a party but for these problems to be solved.	The French sent us a very clear message they want environment to be at the heart of our lives at the heart of the political game and that message has been spread across Europe he said.	False
Like this story?	It's the damage we are doing to the planet one Twitter user noted in response to the Now This video.	But don't we have a responsibility to mitigate the next disaster?	Others were less accusatory.	The motive behind Scott's alleged science denial has also received media attention.	False
Global Change Research Program.	Here are some key points.	It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	But there are other less obvious risks.	It's well over 1000 pages and touches on a daunting range of topics.	False
But he added Measuring with precision from my perspective the degree of human contribution is very challenging.	We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that.	The United States has a seat at the table.	If nations around the globe want to seek to learn from us on what were doing to reduce our CO2 footprint were going to share that with them and thats something that should occur and will occur in the future.	Thats where our focus has been the last several weeks.	True
Its the only thing that people ever ask about Bruce Nilles who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute a Colorado based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency said in the USA Today report.	For natural gas companies its a threat to their existence.	USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation.	USA Today reported that people believe the move is necessary to fight climate change with an eye toward creating fewer legacy gas hookups as the nation shifts to carbon neutral energy sources.	The American Gas Association which represents more than 200 local energy companies says an average of one new customer is added every minute.	False
The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed.	But the report said the efficacy of measures such as planting forests bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2 were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks.	The summary said renewable energy would need to supply 70 to 85 percent of electricity by 2050 to stay within a 1.5C limit compared with about 25 percent now.	False
The BBC's Rajini Vaidyanathan in Washington says the move will be welcomed by many Trump supporters as for them this is less about science and more about sending a signal to so called global elites.	A United Nations spokeswoman said it was a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security.	In many ways it is far worse than many had expected.	Small island nations whose existence is threatened by rising sea levels were critical of the move.	He sees it as a clear job killer as an economy strangler and a desperately unfair stitch up by other countries wanting to take economic advantage of the US.	False
When it comes to advice the agency receives the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	Pruitt appointed Paul Gilman as the head of the Board of Scientific Counselors.Gilman currently serves as the chief sustainability officer at the waste management and incinerator company Covanta.He has been a leading advocate for incinerating trash as a source of fuel for electricity.	As it relates to grants from this agency youre going to have to choose said Pruitt who described the new rule as a way of ensuring theres integrity in the process and that the scientists that are advising us are doing so without any kind of appearance of conflict.	For Pruitt anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down.	Rick Perry R and accused him of abusing science.Honeycutt relied heavily on research produced by Michael Dourson whose consultancy Toxicology Excellence for Risk Assessment was described in 2014 by InsideClimate News as the one stop science shop favored by the chemical and tobacco industries.	False
Mother Nature has been teasing mankind with this for a long time saying 'this is here'.	It is a high risk project but also one which may have a very high reward at the end said Orheim.	For Wolfgang Foerg the chief executive of Swiss company Water Vision which has teamed up with Sloane the project has huge potential in the face of ever more frequent drought.	The project is crazy no question said Olav Orheim a Norwegian glaciologist with four decades of experience who is working on a similar project for Saudi Arabia.	Thousands break off every year.	False
The NIE regularly updates Koreans about the state of nature in the DMZ through videos it posts on its social media accounts.	Previous data has been collected starting in 1974.	The data collected in the DMZ took place from 2014 to 2017.	Other areas could be designated for economic cooperation and travel.	The region should be classified according to value such as key areas with high preservation value and buffer areas.	True
Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles.	Philip Rossetti is a data analyst at the American Action Forum Devin Hartman is electricity policy manager and senior fellow with the R Street Institute.	It should be one that centers on quality institutions and policies that leverage competition and consumer choice.	Responding to challenges in the energy sphere one issue at a time results in many conservatives missing the forest for the trees and not talking enough about what pro market energy policy looks like.	Conservatives should seek opportunities to shed regulations and subsidies in favor of market oriented policies.	True
We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible.	This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	Herzog calls most of these extraction ideas more of a hope than a reality.	But research shows that the amount of land needed for that would be formidable.	Their new report lays out the difficulty in stark detail it would require a 40 50 percent reduction in emissions by 2030 global emissions are currently rising.	False
But Maria Neira the head of the WHO's public health department said the real solution to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it.	Pregnant women are among the most avid customers of the Russian made product with some saying they are following their doctor's orders.	They are just funding businesses without any positive results.	The NGO says the government should give some 200000 ger residents access to loans so that they install heating insulation and replace their stoves with cleaner heaters.	The non profit group Smog and Kids donated a South Korean made air ventilation system to a kindergarten in one of the capital's most polluted areas and the difference in air quality inside and outside the classrooms is palpable.	False
It will be essential that we map and evaluate all possible resources that could be useful.	A human mission to Mars will be complex expensive and very dangerous.Sending humans to Mars and returning them safely to the Earth will be among the most difficult projects ever undertaken.	These might include the development of profitable industries for trade with Earth or experimenting with new technologies that might have applications for life on Earth.	There are several dangers that would face the colonists.	Who knows what we will find there!	False
But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	Other celebrities like Julia Roberts are also eco hypocrites.	In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.	Celebrities often claim to be concerned about the environment usually without changing their lavish lifestyles or pollution.	More than 45 celebrities took part in the fundraiser which brought in more than 44 million.	False
Our health hangs in the balance too.	Read Maryn McKennas New York Times story for more on this.	Its not just the future of the environment thats at stake here.	These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health.	In addition deforestation and urbanization are moving humans into areas where they havent lived before and putting them into closer contact with animals that carry disease causing microbes like bats during West Africas 2014 Ebola outbreak.	False
The Trump administration released the report ahead of schedule on the Friday after Thanksgiving a move many interpreted as an attempt to bury the findings.	Well I think that both sides have you know their own results from their studies and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science Craft said.	Craft responded I believe there are scientists on both sides that are accurate.	the interviewer followed up.	The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.	True
All of this is to be pursued through jointly held symposia seminars workshops study tours collaborative research and development projects exchanges and training programs and other forms of cooperation that strengthen the bonds between UNEP and the U.S.	As the Trump White House continues its cleanup of the mess foreign and domestic left behind by the Obama administration it should toss out a little noticed document that entangles the U.S. in some of the worst schemes ever cooked up by U.N. bureaucrats and their cronies in the global environmental movement.	The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans.	For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False
Recall the false promises about corn and cellulosic ethanol The Wall Street Journal editorial board wrote of the study.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Over the long term hydrogen methane technology offers a further advantage it allows surplus wind and solar power generated during peaks to be stored and these surpluses will see a sharp increase as the share of this renewable energy grows study co author Christoph Buchal professor of physics at the University of Cologne said in a statement.	Its better read as a warning that new technologies arent a climate change panacea.	True
Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreements goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	We are watching with bated breath the teamwrote.	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities.	Rising sea levels endanger heavily populated cities such as New York San Francisco New Orleans and Miami and are predicted to cause 13.1 million Americans to relocate from coastal areas by 2100.	The calving event will probably be slow and graceful the scientists of Project MIDAS wrote.	False
Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Washington Gov.	However it remains to be seen if there is an audience with a seven hour attention span for a single issue.	Here is the format The audience will be composed of selected Democrats independents and stakeholders.	It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates like what executive orders they would sign how high climate change ranks as a priority and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy.	True
So whats the point of attacking environmentalists?	In California for example humanscaused95 percent of all wildfires with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem.	Most wildfires are caused by humans mostly unintentionally.	Randi Spivak public lands program director at the Center for Biological Diversity said the administration is missing the main issue by being dismissive of climate changes effect on the fires.	Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke spent the last week targeting environmental groups that have for years opposed activities like logging and thinning to reduce the risks of catastrophic wildfires on federal lands.	True
And the ways to protect oneself are limited.	And you can't underestimate how important agricultural burning is even though people often think only of cars and heavy industry as the causes.	It's thought to have resulted in thousands of deaths.	And of course it's the elderly who suffer the very young and people with pre existing respiratory illnesses like or heart problems.	The result is then classified on a scale from good to hazardous.	True
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	In this new wave of ethical investing the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record.	The moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy said Toms Insua the director of the Movement.	I hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit because while this decision makes smart financial sense acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative she said.	Their leadership is launching a path that the World Bank and its financial organs should follow.	False
This fee structure ignores human nature which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught.	They were hoping no one would question it.	After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site state Representative Gerry Pollet who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest called their actions outrageous.	They are here for the money and thats it Carpenter told KING.	The workers are employed by Washington River Protection Solutions WRPS the organization responsible for cleaning approximately 53 million gallons of high level radioactive and chemical waste stored in the containers at Hanford.	True
Think your friends would be interested?	Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished asking By the way did you know Im the guy who did all this?	Read Real Clear Politics it will tell you about how I started this whole thing back in 1987 climate change.	A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group.	In 1987 Biden delivered a Senate speech warning of the dangers of global warming and his Global Climate Protection Act called for setting up a task force to plan to tackle the issue.	True
This is critically important for two main reasons.	But public health researchers are aware of the limits of the data available and use matching statistical controls and other standard techniques to try to get a clearer picture of whats going on.	Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it.	In other words you cant get a group of volunteers together and then randomly assign half of them to have the air they breathe be deliberately poisoned just to see how bad the poison is.	Tony Cox an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPAs Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee argues that the EPAs agencys current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor.	False
We know we arent in the business of risking anyones safety.	The Peoples Climate March which was supported by hundreds of thousands across the country and tens of thousands in Washington was sponsored by environmental groups labor unions and social justice groups.	This weekends protests come one week after last weeks March for Science.	Video showed thousands marching in the streets of Washington where former Vice President Al Gore Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Virgin Atlantic owner Richard Branson showed up to protest as well.	Sometimes Mother Nature throws you a curveball!	False
Time will tell whether better proves good enough said Dave Lochbaum director of a watchdog group the nuclear safety project at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission NRC required plants to install portable pumps and generators to keep water moving over fuel rods and the spent fuel pool even if offsite power supply was lost.	Repairs cost about 90 million.	U.S. nuclear operators have taken steps to improve preparations for disasters since Fukushima.	There is also spent nuclear fuel at the site of a third power plant in Florida which stopped operating in 2009.	False
And as I pointed out last month in this feature story hes also overseen a drastic slowdown in the day to day work of the agency.	But one of EPAs most important jobs is to enforce civil penalties for companies that breach limits for hazardous chemicals like sulfur dioxide and hydrochloric acid.	Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows.	In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama era environmental regulations as possible.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	True
'It is what the public wants it makes economic sense and it is what the world needs in order to safeguard the lives of future generations.'	'I think we can work more effectively in making sure that every pound that goes in to the fund is achieving what it is meant to do.'	It's a dereliction of both her duty to this country and our duty to our planet.'	Asked whether the UK could contribute more she told the Daily Mail 'It is not always about money it is about ways of working and how to achieve effective outcomes.	She stressed the importance of the fund in heading off wider humanitarian crises such as droughts and floods and said leaders should focus on cutting waste from the programme rather than pumping in more cash immediately.	False
The majority could be attributed to humans though only 8 were caused by arson.	This fire moved so fast I don't think anybody did anything wrong Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently.	According to the National Park Service 90 of wildfires in the US are caused by humans whether by unattended campfires burning debris cigarettes or arson.	If you don't evacuate and it becomes a rescue situation then our firefighters are taken away from the firefight and moved to the rescue.	Ninety eight percent of fires are small andor suppressed quickly Prof Peterson says.	False
Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'	Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'	The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist.	An image of her stare at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme.	Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'	True
Some scientists maintain people like Nye are the ones cherry picking data.	Happer a science adviser to President Donald Trump made public his skeptical views on climate change in January.	Nye who is well known for hosting a childrens TV show in the 1990s scolded CNNs New Day Saturday panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicistWilliam Happer.	He also suggested the 24 news channel should instead drown out people like Happer with 98 scientists who believe in man made global warming.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
Do I think man has some impact?	I believe theres climate change Walberg said according to a video of the exchange obtained first published by the Huffington Post.	Why do I believe that?	Well as a Christian I believe that there is a creator in God who is much bigger than us.	Yeah of course.	True
'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement.	In a letter written on Friday the Interior Department announced the shutdown of the study which was started in 2016 under former President Barack Obama while the department undergoes an agency wide budgetary review.	The Trump administration has halted a study looking at the health risks of mountaintop removal coal mining.	True
It is hard to imagine a more important priority.	Let us ask them.	We have no luxury to indulge selfish ignorant behaviors.	There must be a new approach to public policy development that makes Earth First.	Property economy and jobs must serve Earth First.	True
This is the first of perhaps more events like that to come Tina Neal the scientist in charge of the USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory said on a conference call of Wednesdays blast which shot projectiles from the crater.	Evacuee David Nail was anxious to learn if his house had been destroyed.	The 57 year old who recently retired to the area from Orange County California said he had seen drone footage showing lava flowing up his driveway causing two propane tanks to explode.	It was the second largest of the last century in Hawaii.	We dont anticipate there being any wholesale devastation or evacuations necessary anywhere in the state of Hawaii said Donald Swanson of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory.USGS Hawaii County Civil Defense said all 1900 residents of the Leilani Estates and Laipuna Garden areas around 25 miles 40 km east of the crater had been evacuated.	False
It's that natural infrastructure that we're trying to avoid being lost.	We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	Personally I buy recycled toilet paper because we can and it's good for the Earth said Andrew Musgrave director of Catholic Social Action at the Archdiocese of Cincinnati and one of the 150 signatories to the letter sent to PG.	a PG spokeswoman asked CBS MoneyWatch who also pointed to Charmin as a superior product.	It's just unacceptable that a company like PG is making toilet paper a product that is used for seconds and flushed from virgin pulp said Shelley Vinyard boreal corporate campaign manager for the Natural Resources Defense Council and one of several dozen protesters at PG's annual shareholders meeting in Cincinnati Ohio on Tuesday.	False
There are factors and factors and factors.	This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	Whether new opportunities come from digging up coal or harnessing the wind for job seekers in Wyoming that detail may be of secondary importance.	And that's really what we have here says economist Robert Godby director of the Center for Energy Economics and Public Policy at the University of Wyoming.	Beggar says the Trump administration has shown a willingness to cut red tape and move things along more quickly.	True
Many medicines are simply discarded in the United States alone an estimated one third of the four billion drugs prescribed each year ends up as waste.	We're seeing constant engineering of new pharmaceuticals and seeing clinical practices evolve to include recommendations of earlier treatment and higher doses said the lead report author Hannah Leckie.	As the global population grows and ages and prescribing rates continue to climb that figure is set to hit 10 million annually by 2050 higher than the number of people dying from cancer.	When animals and humans ingest medicines up to 90 percent of active ingredients are excreted back into the environment.	Human prescriptions are also set to drastically increase according to the report.	False
This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	In the lawsuit 21 activists ages 11 to 22 said federal officials violated their rights to due process under the U.S. Constitution by failing to adequately address carbon pollution such as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels.	This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers.	Circuit Court of Appeals.	Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	False
Related Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect The very basis of all of the bills that are in here is to put people above government Utah Rep.	Rob Bishop the top Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee said on the House floor before the vote.	LWCF has protected some of our most treasured natural resources while creating jobs supporting local economies and providing countless opportunitiesfor recreation she said on the House floor.	If indeed we're going to have public lands there should be access to those lands.	Rep. Debbie Dingell D Mich praised the program for its universal benefits saying the conservation fund has steered 3.9 billion to some 40000 projects in every county across this country since it began in the 1960s.	False
We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world.	When the Paris Agreement was being negotiated the U.S. delegation pushed for more transparency and accountability to make sure the countries that signed on would actually do what they promised.	The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil.	And so for us to be the exception on this issue is holding the world back.	U.S.	False
The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	Roy Moore hes part of that culture Michael Hansen executive director of the Birmingham based environmental group Gasp and a former candidate in the Democratic primary for Senate told HuffPost.	But it appears that Obama and his liberal administration are not really interested in what the Constitution or the scientific community have to say when it interferes with their radical agenda.	This is a demographic Moore who attends the Gallant First Baptist Church near his home seems likely to tap.	That year the National Association of Evangelicals proposed adopting a new platform called For the Health of a Nation.	True
Regardless of why you're doing it what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you.	The idea is when dollars are spent to rebuild you don't just want to rebuild the same old way you want to rebuild in a way that is smarter and makes it less likely that they will be effected the same way in the future storms that's resiliency former HUD Secretary Julian Castro who awarded the grant at the time told CNN.	Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN.	We could tie this to climate change or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money.	And I think it's important that as we come together as a country we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response that we are adapting properly.	False
Global Change Research Program USGCRP which is responsible for producing the NCA.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	That 2017 study published in the journal Science was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer respectively.	University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. pointed out problems with the study on Twitter Saturday including the fact it was funded by groups connected with Bloomberg and Steyer.	But even the United Nations worst case scenario called RCP8.5 is being called into question by experts.	True
The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy.	How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?	But he doesnt care because in his mind its real.	How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy.	Its exactly what we did to face the Nazi threat the existential threat to Western democracies in 1941 he said.	True
The federally mandated study was supposed to come out in December but was released by the Trump administration on Friday at a time when many Americans are on a long holiday weekend distracted by family and shopping.	We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered but believed and acted upon.	Coming from the US Global Change Research Program a team of 13 federal agencies the Fourth National Climate Assessment was put together with the help of 1000 people including 300 leading scientists roughly half from outside the government.	In Houston communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause.	However it suggests that if the United States immediately reduced its fossil fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions it could save thousands of lives and generate billions of dollars in benefits for the country.	False
Did you ever stop to wonder what they know that the current belly achers dont?	The purpose of this rule was breathtaking.	The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years.	Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP industry lawsuit against it.	This was a part of Obamas pen and phone way of ruling the country.	False
People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant because it helps put up a wall of protections around those communitiesaddingI think its just now starting to gather steam.	The proposal also requires an extra level of scrutiny for White House executive actions on low income communities and people of color and feedback from those affected communities.	Harris is not the only presidential candidate who has come out with a plan focused on environmental justice.Jay Inslee released the fifth plank of his climate change package on Monday that refocuses the White House Council of Environmental Quality as a new clearinghouse for environmental justice and has its own scoring mechanism for impacts.	Mustafa Ali the former head of the EPA environmental justice office noted that the idea of scoring environmental justice impacts is something advocates have pushed for years.	False
Right?	Interior Department spokesman Nicholas Goodwin said in a statement that the government needed to make sure the project was safe and environmentally responsible.	Spewing.	Fish and Wildlife Service many more are killed by flying into buildings or by domestic cats.	Ive studied it better than anybody.	False
We looked at improving agricultural yields in particular of more health sensitive crops like fruit vegetables and legumes said Dr Springmann.	This means eating mainly plant based foods and is one of three key steps towards a sustainable future for all in 2050 they say.	The study has been published in the journal Nature.	All measures combined can result in keeping healthy both planet and people.	The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together.	False
On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	This is the war we are facing.	It is an international crisis.	Maybe I am not affirming it these NGOs are carrying out some criminal actions to draw attention against me against the government of Brazil.	These countries that send money here they dont send it out of charity he said.They send it with the aim of interfering with our sovereignty.	True
Instead of focusing on the apprehensionand divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters its more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together tohelp one another.	In a hyper political environment pro climate change and anti climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters and the implementation ofstandardized response to these crises.	While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies its more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric whichonly serves to encourage people throughanxiety and panic.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season as well asthe most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria which was said to cripple Dominica with widespread devastation en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States its important to maintainlevelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speakingtruth amidstapprehension.	He added that the study is based on concrete mainstream science and cited reports from The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and NOAA to corroborate hisanalysis.	True
No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	I mean you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you cant even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards?	Thunberg 16 has been on a tour of North America to raise awareness for climate change.	Ironically she failed because of left wing communist protesters in Chile Henderson was forced to make the flight last second because protests in Chile caused the U.N.s Cop25 climate summit to be moved to Madrid Spain.	From the Hill Greta Thunbergs plan for carbon free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up.	True
A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country.	Yet despite the new found sense of urgency some are skeptical that the involvement of the military would really be able to do much.	It was clear though that deploying the military was also in part a public relations ploy.	Protecting the rain forest is our duty he said.	And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	False
Employees wanting medical or religious exceptions can hash those out witha company policy team.	WeWork is perhaps the most well known company to emerge offering co working spaces to freelancers small businesses and even employees of large companies such as Microsoft.	If WeWork employees want a burger while on business the money is coming out of their own pockets.	More As co working grows up niche spaces take center stage WeWork boasts 6000 employees worldwide according to Bloomberg.	The companyestimates its no meat policy will save15507103 animals by 2023 according to Business Insider along with16.6 billion gallons of water and445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide theheat trapping gas that alters Earth's climate.	True
Our work is to inform better choices and it would actually be very useful to know for sure it didnt work.	David Keith a solar geoengineering GE expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	They also ignore the question as to why theres not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction she added.	Keith believes the experiment may help to measure the feasibility and risks involved in GE an umbrella term for a range of techniques to deliberately adjust the climate in an effort to mitigate global warming.	That would break the slow moving agreement among many environmental groups that sound research in this field makes sense Keith said on the sidelines of the Climate Engineering Conference CEC in Berlin.	False
On a broader note Im confused.	But making sense isnt a tenant of the climate religion.	It was because the infrastructure is falling apart.	No not really.	In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement.	False
This report is striking for two reasons.	Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action.	That view was echoed by Abigail Dillen president of environmental group Earthjustice.	And secondly it majors on the economic impact in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation.	Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today the 4th National Climate Assessment says.	False
We want to be there we want to be providing solutions for the world.	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come.	We know where were going.	Canada wants to create good jobs and wants to grow our economy and create opportunities for business.	Through crestfallen Trudeau reiterated to the president Canadas continued commitment to working internationally to address climate change.	False
Coal ash in particular has long been a hot button issue in the utility industry.	Children are particularly at risk of learning disabilities birth defects asthma and cancer with 1.54 million living near such storage sites according to EPA data cited by the Sierra Club.	Rather the agency justified its move by noting it is expected to save the utility sector between 31 and 100 million annually.	This is the second biggest toxic pollution threat in our country and we need to clean it up not make things easier for polluters Earthjustice attorney Lisa Evans said in a statement.	They face contaminated drinking water toxic dust in the air and serious health threats just because the EPA is choosing to side with polluters over the public.	False
And the fact of the matter is that what we talk about is what are we going to do about those corporations?	What have we done?	One woman associated with the environmental group 350 New Hampshire Action Rebecca Beaulieu asked Biden how voters can trust him if he continues to associate himself with fossil fuel executives.	Im also like actively doing something to try to combat this climate crisis as it stands.	Kiddo I want you to just take a look.	False
We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit and we need climate policy that reflects that said Kiera OBrien 21 a senior at Harvard University who co founded the group.	We are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party OBrien said in the Reuters article.	The key here is the dividend back to the people former Sen. Trent Lott R MS who supports the young group told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	The campaign will connect young conservatives with Republican lawmakers around the country to talk about climate policy.	Our plan would provide incentives for companies and individuals to lower emissions in ways they think are best.	False
Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	The New Deal.	And I think for younger people looking at this are more like how are we saying lets take it easy when 3000 Americans died last year how are we saying lets take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system?	Thats the line activists and many politicians have taken up in the months since the IPCCs report.	And what preceded World War II?	False
They are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who dont want to follow the rules said Aaron Colangelo the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council.	They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law.	Over and over again the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well being of everyday Americans said Eric Schneiderman New Yorks attorney general.	Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court.	It was aimed not at sooty power plants or emissions intensive trucks but dentists.	False
We want to embrace better stewardship.	In order to get there we have to understand the technology.	And in order to understand it quite frankly we have to work with you he said.	We want to embrace reliability.	Its a job that comes with the sometimes conflicting tasks of preserving and protecting public lands and waters for future generations while also setting the policies that govern extracting natural resources from them.	False
Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D R.I. brought out some visual aids to question Wheeler further about his relationship with Murray including a poster sized printout of a photo leaked from a March 2017 meeting between Murray and Energy Secretary Rick Perry where the coal executive provided a detailed wish list of policies to the administration.	Those increases are expected to cause up to1400 premature deathsper year by 2030.	This is a fudged statistic however.	In October the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change.	2 job Wheeler said he believed that man has an impact on the climate but whats not completely understood is what the impact is.	False
I'm focused now on implementing the policy priorities of the Trump administration and Secretary Bernhardt within the authorities and mission given this agency by Congress.	The source illegal immigrants.	Violent crimeincluding dangerous gangs over crowded schools the appearance of diseases once vanquished from the western world escalating hospital costs and an overwhelming demand for government services!	As someone in the public arena for nearly four decades I've given countless statements and written scores of articles on a wide variety of topics.	They're preaching fear.	False
It was a voluntary program The president was not truthful with the American people today and the president who talked about putting America first has now put America last.	In an interview on MSNBC on Thursday former Secretary of State John Kerry said President Donald Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Accord puts America last is shameful and will hurt kids by worsening their asthma.	More than 23000 children were included in the study.	He is hurting them.	Should more plants and food for people and animals really be demonized?	False
In doing so they reveal their own selective adherence to scientific reason.	These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry.	The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work.	Such biased narratives have bedeviled the Dakota Access Pipeline from the beginning.	Jillian Kay Melchior is a fellow at the Independent Womens Forum.	False
WRIs desire to maintain access to Chinese officials may influence its political activities in the United States Republican Reps.	Given WRIs close ties to the Chinese government its emphasis on cultivating contacts with various U.S. officials is particularly disconcerting in light of the government partnerships and environmental initiatives involving WRI during the Obama Administration they wrote.	WRI leadership regularly interacts with senior Chinese government and Communist party officials and provides public support for Chinese environmental programs Bishop and Westerman wrote.While WRI criticizes policies of the U.S. government WRI is silent on Chinese human rights violations such as arrests of environmental protesters and the mass detention of ethnic minorities.	Lawmakers want to know if WRIs desire to maintain good relations with the Chinese is affecting the groups U.S. operations and advocacy effectively making it a foreign agent of the communist government.	WRI describes itself as a nonprofit global research organization that operates in more than 60 countries including China.	False
So that was the motivation for originally setting up the project.	Some of the estimates covered different proportions of the ice sheets some of them covered different time periods and all of them used different methods and so it became difficult for people who are not specialists to try to pick them apart says Shepherd.	We believe that we've captured all of the different satellite records that exist on the planet he says.	That could be a big deal he says for anybody who lives works and governs a coastal region.	This assessment conducted by 84 scientists from 44 international organizations is known as the Ice Sheet Mass Balance Inter comparison Exercise IMBIE.	True
Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings.	Cooper also asked agencies to promote climate adaptation and green energy use including wind and solar.	North Carolina Democratic Gov.	With historic storms lashing our state we must combat climate change make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters.	RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed.	True
There is enough data to take action.	In the late 1990sa crusading attorneysued E.I.	There is not enough urgency by Acting Administrator Wheeler and he is putting the health of millions of Americans at risk.	du Pont de Nemours and Co. over a massive contamination in Parkersburg West Virginia that killed livestock and sickened and deformed many residents in the rural Appalachian community that surrounded the chemical companys plant.	EPA needs to release strict drinking water standards and not just do a plan or do more research said Judith Enck a former regional EPA administrator who began dealing with a PFAS crisis in upstate New York in 2014.	False
Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category.	In an interview with the Flash Report this week Cox said water housing affordability and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle.	Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News.	According to the poll which has a 3.4 margin of error 67 of Democrats 54 of independents and 33 of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Coxs views on environmental issues will impact how they vote.	every single time weve covered its been a palpable ratings killer.	True
All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems.	The warning will come from the awkwardly named IPBES the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans.	About 3.2 billion people worldwide are suffering from degraded soils said IPBES chairman Prof Sir Bob Watson.	That's almost half of the world population.	False
What we are focusing on right now is taking care of the folks who survived this disaster who need our immediate help he said.	To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm Duke responded I you know the data I don't know what it particularly indicates.	Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN.	And I think it's important that as we come together as a country we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response that we are adapting properly.	False
As we have said many times the President's team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the President's plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986.	A value added tax which is widely used around the world is consumption based.	Republicans have turned their attention to an overhaul of the U.S. tax system a key campaign goal after their first attempt to replace the Affordable Care Act failed.	Opposition to border adjustment a House GOP provision designed to raise revenue and help to offset major tax cuts threatens to delay or trip up efforts to pass reform.	The White House did not immediately respond to CNBC's request to comment.	False
Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that.	We have to connect people to where that little bit of extra money is actually going.	At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	In September's edition of Vogue edited by Meghan the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature saying We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us and only us.	The duke said that what is important is what we do to balance out negative effects.	False
We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday.	They are trying to inflate the cost and lower the benefits in order to justify rules that simply don't make sense under the law.	At a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing last week about the direction of the EPA former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy who finalized the Clean Power Plan under Obama said she believes the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule as well as other proposed rules the agency has made since Trump took office undermines the science and the law in how they're trying to roll back those rules.	Instead the administration says the plan rule instead empowers states promotes energy independence and facilitates economic growth and job creation the release stated.	Former President Barack Obama's plan if implemented would have prevented 3600 premature deaths a year 1700 heart attacks and 90000 asthma attacks according to analysis conducted by the EPA under his tenure.	False
It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	The mayor said he had challenged the citys Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer Instead of saying all the reasons why not get to a reason as to why.	Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor at Large at Breitbart News.	He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship.	The plan also aims to provide every American with a guaranteed job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people.	False
A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	It will make clear who is just using it as a buzzword and who is taking it seriously.	Oregon Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley who's mulling a presidential bid said the issue should be an integral part of his party's agenda going forward.	The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates.	The core objectives are some things such as let's drive a fast transition from fossil fuel carbon transmission creating energy sources to renewable energy so that we save our planet.	False
What Im tired of is us worrying more about the future of fossil fuels than worry about the future of fossil fuel workers.	Weve now seen the whites of its eyes.	Heather McGhee senior fellow at the progressive think tank Demos A decade of disputation is followed now by this incredible uptick of Republicans looking around for solutions former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. whose support for climate action led to his ouster in a primary challenge in 2010 said at the event where he was the lone Republican.	On Wednesday conservatives leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans Stalinism or genocide.	That same week Rep. Matt Gaetz R Fla. a loyal Trump ally drafted a nonbinding resolution staking out a Green Real Deal that would acknowledge the threat climate change poses to human health and safety in communities across the United States.	False
We dont have a social mission other than transparency and fact checking.	Comparing what people say to data then stepping out of the room is sort of the best thing journalists can do Roston said.	He admitted in a media environment that rewards sensationalism and factual manipulation the approach may seem a bit bland.	You dont go through the quarterly quarterly results from Coke Levis or anyone else and not come away thinking that they dont have concerns over limited resources like water.	Weve always had this kind of coverage but I think its high time we do something better to admire it organize it and make it easier for people to discover.	True
CNN gathered input from advocacy groups former government officials and academics.	This is a worldwide issue and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India.	5.	It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change.	8.	False
Its a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU.	Its a fundamental threat to progress against climate change and thus the entirety of the human race.	Its especially important that wealthy countries take the lead on the issue.	But the stakes are even bigger than they appear at first glance Its not just the survival of Western democracy thats at stake but the planet itself.	All of this goes to underscore an important and poorly understood point The wave of right wing populism sweeping the world is not only dangerous for the countries who succumb to it or even to immigrants wishing to move to those nations.	False
The 18 year old activist made a name for herself beyond the Keystone State last month when she questioned Republican gubernatorial nominee Scott Wagner at a town hall on what she said was his lack of action on climate change and donations he received from the fossil fuel industry.	If voters want to know Scotts position on an issue they wont have to ambush him outside an event just to get a hold of him they can come ask him their questions in person.	Rose Strauss apparently isnt showing favoritism in the race for Pennsylvania governor at least when it comes to asking candidates about climate change.	You know humans have warm bodies.	Wagner also asked the Glenside crowd Are we here to elect a governor or are we here to elect a scientist?	False
Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	So what would a 10 foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida?	What they found was Mar a Lago was already in serious trouble.	But in January the agency put out new extreme sea level projections its doomsday scenario in other words.	False
The former secretary for Housing and Urban Development and mayor of San Antonio drew on his experience working with families who had lost their homes to flooding and called for subsidizing the National Flood Insurance Program.	An activist from the Sunrise Movement a liberal environmental group asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking.	He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying Thats the environmental injustice of racism that were dealing with.	Shes right.	Jay Inslee of Washington the self professed climate candidate whose six part plan has been adopted by several other candidates since he dropped out of the race last month.	False
Contracts and financing for these facilities are often not fully transparent but campaign groups including Bankwatch have tried to keep track.	I ask the EPS official running the project Zeljko Lazovic what he feels about such a large and important venture being in the hands of Chinese engineers and workers.	With Chinese workers and Serbian workers at the beginning we had some cultural problems but we have overcome them and there is now very good cooperation.	All this affects the health of people living here many of whom have respiratory diseases he said.	Pera Markovic a lawyer with Cekor an environmental group is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area.	False
We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added.	While many around the world are talking about reducing greenhouse gases the U.S. continues to deliver and todays report is further evidence of our action oriented approach he added.	Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday.	However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong.	These achievements flow largely from technological breakthroughs in the private sector not the heavy hand of government.	False
The declarations signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day.	Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation.	Late last month a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a European Climate Declaration to the Secretary General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change.	Climate science should be less political while climate policies should be more scientific the declaration stated.	Therefore there is no cause for panic and alarm they noted.	True
That's just common sense.	Are we part of the reason?	Energy Secretary Rick Perry veering from the Trump administration message on climate change told CNBC on Wednesday he believes that human activity does play a role.	Common sense tells you bring the cleaner burning fuels bring the things that bring the emissions down.	It makes sense for us to have policies that reduce emissions that reduce the pollutants that are in the air to reduce the particles that cause massive health problems around the world he said.	False
Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity.	She can be very confusing.	Climate is your closet wardrobe.	I thought this was fake but its from Ocasio Cortezs Instagram story tweeted Maue.	Currys latestresearch put together for clients of her consulting company near the end of November looks in detail at projections of sea level rise.	True
We have to think about the whole world.	Because weve got to be working on all fronts.	And thats why many of my plans intersect with our global opportunities and responsibilities.	They keep pulling stuff up that they dont even know what it is.	And so what do they do?	False
This is our issue Beverly said.	This is about social disruption Shepard said.	Theres no question that this is a topic area that black politicians including the CBC Congressional Black Caucus have not focused on as much Thomas A. LaVeist dean of Tulane Universitys School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine said in an interview.	Were hit first and hit worst.	By fighting for the actual justice and livelihood of working people you are going to create the political energy to actually address climate change she said.	False
Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?	We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said.	economy thefossil fuel industry runs thiseconomy it'screated all of thiswealth revolutionizedtransportation communications industry lifted people out of poverty Watters said.	Watters asked.	O'Rourke also said that he wanted people in the fossil fuel industry to act as partners in reaching his goal.	True
It is good economics.	The views are their own.	Policies work best when they are narrowly tailored to the behavior that they seek to alter.	But we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good.	While concerns about government waste are certainly real they can be avoided through smart policy design.	False
They reflect profound failure to honour collective global commitment to protect the most vulnerable.	More than half of these are believed to be children.	With our very existence at stake COP 25 must demonstrate unprecedented ambition to avert ecocide.	But we also refuse to die.	While her presence has been welcomed US environmentalists want to see concrete steps on climate.	False
have adopted almost precisely as I proposed it in 2008.	According to the group which is led by former Secretaries of State James Baker III and George Shultz and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson their plan would tax fossil fuel companies and redistribute the funds back to Americans in equal portions thereby artificially raising the price of fossil fuels and making renewable energy sources more competitive.	In a recent interview with the Scientific American noted climate alarmist James Hansen which the article refers to as the father of climate change awareness said the plan promoted by Republicans is similar to one he developed in 2008 and would be popular with the American people.	This way it actually stimulates the economy Hansen said.	If its a tax taken by the government it makes the government bigger and it depresses the economy.	False
Were bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death 17 year old organizer Maddie Graham said.	The host asked Warren a listener question name the specific steps she has taken in her campaign to ensure that your campaigns environmental impact is limited as possible.	We need systemic change.	All those with hopes and dreams who cherish the future are invited to gather in the shadow of the Halls of Congress.	Think about that three things 70 percent reduction she added.	False
Made up of city and state level governments business executives and religious leaders the Were still in group is staging dozens of events in a bid to show action is still possible without White House support.	I cant believe they are putting profits over the planet and profits over people.	Several campaigners read statements.	None of the panelists would be drawn on the study but Griffith spoke out against alarmism that he claimed displaced pragmatic solutions to address environmental concerns with prescriptive regulations that put jobs at risk and raised costs for consumers.	After the protesters were led away by security guards Griffiths said In the US our policy is not to keep it in the ground but to use it as cleanly and efficiently as possible.	False
As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	This proposal goes one step further by shrinking the overall size of government and streamlining the regulatory state.	The meeting sparked speculation that the White House was considering a carbon tax as part of a broader tax reform plan.	False
'Not the cause of it but the things that we observe.'	'The United States is one of the best in the world at doing this we want to continue to do that but right now the administration is focused on the recovery and the relief efforts and as Tom Bossert said a few minutes ago we'll look at that analysis once we get through the coming days and focus on the recovery and relief and saving life effort' Huckabee Sanders added.	'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced' Pruitt said.	When Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked about a link Monday she touted the country's environmental record and moved on.	But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red versus blue divide.	False
Meanwhile our people are being poisoned she said.	Vivian Stockman of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition was protesting outside Trumps rally.	It will also greatly increase the number of people who get sick with serious illnesses such as heart and lung problems.	An analysis done by his own Environmental Protection Agency EPA concludes that the rollback of Obama era pollution controls will lead to many more people dying and suffering health problems that they otherwise would not have.	When he made his announcement somehow Trump left out those details of the life threatening side effects of using coal to create electrical energy.	False
As we use and reuse things it gives us some social engagement status.	It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains.	I think part of the benefit of a detailed audit like this is that it increases everyone's mindfulness about what they are doing with food says Gordon Jackson the manager of the resort's Waste to Wealth initiative.	For many hotels simple knowledge of the issue has resulted in greater observance from staff and ultimately less waste.	In May I experienced one hotel's efforts firsthand as I stood on the roof at ITC Maurya a hotel in Delhi.	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling but additional factors have likely played a part Jensen added.	True
My personal view is that undermines the credibility of the effort.	I understand the value of aspirational goals Bledsoesaid.	To coverwhat would presumably be a gargantuan cost it envisions financing by the federal government using a combination of the Federal Reserve a new public bank or system of regional and specialized public banks public venture funds and such other vehicles or structures that the select committee deems appropriate in order to ensure that interest and other investment returns generated from public investments made in connection with the plan will be returned to the treasury reduce taxpayer burden and allow for more investment.	Its a daunting task and Im not sure that the authors of the Green New Deal fully comprehend how much theyll need Clack said.	Speaking at an eventcommemoratingMartin Luther King Day that monthOcasio Cortez asserted thatclimate change constituted our World War II and added Millennials and people you know Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and were like The world is gonna end in 12 years if we dont address climate change and your biggest issue is how are we gonna pay for it?'	True
The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat.	That was the right thing to do.	The store's owners have been forced to lay off about 60 percent of its workers in recent years.	He put America first and said to the rest of the world we are going to say no and exit the Paris Accord.	Follow him at This story has been corrected to show the percentage of coal jobs created under Trump was 4 percent.	False
But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials.	Interiors internal watchdog recently opened two ethics probes the first of them just four days into Bernhardts tenure intomultiple high ranking interior officials including the secretary.	Rep. Betty McCollum D Minn. the subcommittees chair quoted from the U.N. report and told Bernhardt the country is depending on you to help lead the fight along with us to combat these issues including the biodiversity and climate crises.	Bernhardt stressed as he has before that he takes ethics extremely seriously is working to improve the agencys ethics program and is confident that he has complied with all rules and will be cleared at the end of the investigation.	If you have a view on what you want to happen well carry it out when you execute it.	False
You know for too long there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change.	That's a false choice and it's one that you've talked about Mr. President.	And the future of this world will rely greatly upon America and this administration.	The purpose of this letter is to put California on notice that this framework agreement appears to be inconsistent with federal law the letter said.	Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers the letter added.	True
Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	People adapt rather easily.	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics.	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	False
To not say anything about it is just ignorance and its irresponsible.	It was something that was going to happen when peoples grandchildren were alive.	Lisa Graumlich the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal.	Joel Clement who resigned from the interior department because he said the administration was muzzling scientists and ignoring climate change effects on vulnerable communities now works with the Union of Concerned Scientists.	The New York congressman Paul Tonko invited the League of Conservation Voters Gene Karpinski and the Maryland congressman Jamie Raskin brought along 350.orgs Bill McKibben.	False
It can strengthen United States company's competitiveness in the global markets.	Instead there is an administration wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether.	It is hypocritical said Andrew Rosenberg director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	While the White House may be against jumping to conclusions on the available scientific studies with Pruitt even calling for more data from industry scientists the administration has done little to back up those calls monetarily.	The idea that they are operating on is that the US will be at a disadvantage if it deals with climate change.	True
We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign.	With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016.	Bakersfield Calif. wasin second place for ozone pollution.	True
Co author Sammy de Grave head of research at the Oxford University Museum added The study was published in the journal Communications Biology.	Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda.	Diversity takes millions of years to evolve but can be damaged in the blink of an eye.	We are already losing diversity that has never even been documented so it's vitally important to understand the mechanisms that drive evolution into new species.	Humans are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of species not seen since the demise of the dinosaurs British scientists warned.	False
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Environmental groups described Trump's order as an effort to short circuit a state's ability to review complicated projects putting at risk a state's ability to protect drinking water supplies and wildlife.	The White House has sought to stave off any discord by arguing that the order is not meant to take power away from the states but to ensure that state actions follow the intent of the Clean Water Act.	My action today will cut through the destructive permitting and denials Trump said during the signing of the executive orders at the International Union of Operating Engineers International Training and Education Center a union run facility in Crosby Texas.	One of Trump's planned executive orders calls for the Environmental Protection Agency to consult with states tribes and others before issuing new guidance and rules for states on how to comply with the law.	False
We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	As one of Florida's leading environmental researchers Dr. Frazer understands the unique water issues facing our state and the actions we must take to solve them he said Monday.	And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said .	DeSantis appointed Thomas Frazer a biologist who has been director of the University of Florida's School of Natural Resources and Environment since 2012 and previously worked as acting director of the UF Water Institute In the new position he will coordinate Florida's research data and scientific work and make sure officials have the scientific analysis they need to tackle the state's environmental problems.	There's also a chance that more than 346 billion in property value will bebelow sea level by 2100 studies show Frazer said he's honored by the appointment.	False
When the threat arose yesterday people were still doing their activities on the beach and did not immediately run and they became victims he told a news briefing.	You can also contact us in the following ways	At least 540 have been injured and 29 are listed as missing.	Rescue efforts are under way though hampered by a major power cut.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque among the buildings damaged.	False
The judge is basically asking BLM to take a wild guess on how many wells will be developed on leases prematurely.	The decision is the first significant check on the climate impact of the Trump administrations energy first agenda that has opened up vast swaths of public land for mining and drilling.	The decision stems from an environmental lawsuit.	With the science mounting that we need to aggressively rein in greenhouse gases this ruling is monumental said Kyle Tisdel attorney and energy and communities program director for the Western Environmental Law Center.	WildEarth Guardians Physicians for Social Responsibility and the Western Environmental Law Center sued the BLM in 2016 for failing to calculate and limit the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from future oil and gas projects.	False
They say the president favours development over conservation.	Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	Mr Bolsonaro who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed has not commented on the latest data.	Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?	As the largest rainforest in the world the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming.	False
This means conservation preserving culture and facilitating recreation.	We should be in the business of being a partner.	Our mandate is multiple use of public lands and multiple use also includes the development of natural resources as we seek to leverage American energy for American strength Zinke wrote in the departments 2018 22 strategic plan.	The Government Accountability Office had to end a probe in June into whether Zinke threatened Sen. Lisa Murkowski R AK over her vote on Obamacare because the Interior Department didnt cooperate.	Theres rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office.	False
Activists freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of Californias deadliest wildfire seem primed for action and the partys progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue thats remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade.	What we are seeing is a growing consciousness Sanders said.	Just 38 percent of registered voters said candidates positions on global warming would be very important to their voting decisions according to a Yale Program On Climate Change Communication survey published in May.	He helped popularize things like Medicare for All a living wage and a lot of other fights hes taken up said Varshini Prakash the co founder of Sunrise Movement.	Last week youth activists with the grassroots climate group Sunrise Movement staged sit ins in the offices of House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi D Calif. and Rep. Frank Pallone D N.J. the likely next chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee who opposed the creation of a select committee on a Green New Deal.	False
Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems.	This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	Melissa Baldwin co organizer of Miami Climate Month which organized the rally says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami they wanted to put a spotlight on climate change because you cant come to Miami without talking about climate change.	Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off dozens of local activists in Miami Florida held an Underwater Climate Rally calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate.	False
They rely for so much and we would be giving them so little.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In his statement Monday however Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally.	Our results speak for themselves he wrote.	GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS' Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions Sen. Jim Inhofe R Okla. said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016.	Others however see America backing out of the international pact to limit greenhouse gas emissions as an abdication of global leadership and denial of basic climate science.	False
After listing this information Wallace then asked Mr. Pruitt are we supposed to believe thats all a coincidence?	Watch the interview below via YouTube.	Unable to give a straight answer Pruitt first admitted that human activity does contribute to the current warming trend.	Whether or not thats actually true remains to be seen.	The Fox News Sunday anchor went on to reference a report from the U.N. that says it is 95 percent likely that human activity has caused the majority of the warming that has taken place since the mid 20th century.	False
She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing.	She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelts New Deal Lyndon B. Johnsons Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know how and capability.	A joint resolution drafted by Ocasio Cortez and Markey sets a goal to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean renewable and zero emission energy sources including dramatic increases in wind and solar power.	Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security.	A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday the day they introduce the resolution.	False
I'm not a scientist but I'm a keen observer Eskridge said.	The town hall featured people across the country who challenged Gore on the issue or asked his thoughts.	I was worried that other countries might use it as an excuse to pull out themselves Gore said.	We have the ability to prevent even worse sea level rise and and even worse catastrophes that are also caused by the climate crisis Gore said.	But Gore's and Ivanka's influence clearly was not enough.	False
They want the government toprepare an accounting of the nations greenhouse gas emissions and prepare and implement an enforceable national remedial plan for reducing carbon emissions.	Lawyers for Our Children's Trust have argued that government policies have deprived the children of their constitutional rights to life liberty and propertyto dignity to personal security to a stable climate system capable of sustaining human lives and liberties.	Although the case Juliana v. United States has yet to reach the trial stage it has been taught in more than two dozen law schools as well as primary and secondary schools lawyers for the children said inspiring students of all ages to see themselves in the parchment of the U.S. Constitution.	This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Solicitor General Noel Francisco argued in court papers.	More Who is the real Brett Kavanaugh?	False
Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	Its time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time.	Jessie Braverman the groups media liaison told RT that around 25 people showed up at the train tracks to address climate change and let the governor know that if he isnt going to stop the terminal than we will.	While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude by rail they have taken few steps toward increasing safety Inslee wrote in an op ed for the Columbian last year.	In 2014 the state of Washington passed legislation to increase track and hazardous material inspections require oil spill contingency plans increase funding for prevention and cleanup of oil spills and improve safety at crossings along oil train routes.	False
The report the Fourth National Climate Assessment Volume II supplements a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming and which warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet.	The entire report can be viewed at	The Congressionally mandated report written with the help of more than a dozen U.S. government agencies and departments outlined the projected impacts of global warming in every corner of American society in a dire warning at odds with the Trump administrations pro fossil fuels agenda.	Thirteen government departments and agencies from the Agriculture Department to NASA were part of the committee that compiled the new report.	Environmental groups said the report reinforced their calls for the United States to take action on climate change.	False
The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming.	Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals.	False
Thats despite the fact that the 38 page document projects more frequent and more expensive disasters.	This is a glaring omission from an agency that deals with anticipating and responding to weather extremes driven in part by a changing climate.	Its not just rhetoric.	And some government research grant applications faced extra scrutiny and rejection for mentioning the double C word.	But it wasnt so coy in its previous 2014 2018 strategic plan which noted that the agency will also ensure that future risks including those influenced by climate change are effectively integrated into the Agencys risk assessment resources and processes.	False
The shift from 'future problem'to 'now crisis'is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real world catastrophes.	That is rapidly changing how Americans think about it David Doniger with the Natural Resources Defense Council wrote in a recent blog.	We need to be reaching out to broaden our base and if you look at this last election our base is narrowing unfortunately he said.	I talk to our kids and young people all the time and they are more environmentally sensitive they're more pro alternative energy they get the natural gas thing instead of coal.	And yetfew including Doniger expect Washingtonto do muchany time soon in the dramatic way scientistsare urging.	False
According to the ETC website the groups goal is to accelerate change towards low carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius.	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	The group is made up of energy company executives activists investment bankers Al Gore and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of funds the Daily Caller reports.	The group also calls for direct investment in green energy.	It recommends that the world cut emissions to a net zero by the year 2050 to hold back global heating.	False
I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America.	Steyer then shifted focus to cleaning up the air and water in the black and brown communities where our pollution is concentrated and claimed it would create millions of middle class union jobs.	False
The public health community should be there too.	Its not just the future of the planet thats at stake here.	For the White House bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters.	But whats largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact peoples health.	Which means that the White Houses move to repeal the Clean Power Plan is a one two punch to human health and the environment said Georges Benjamin executive director of the American Public Health Association.	False
In June three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800000 people.	The trio includes the San Francisco based Rainforest Action Network the French chapter of Friends of Earth and Save the Rio Grande Valley from Liquefied Natural Gas a local Texas group protesting the construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal in the states southern region.	In 2015 the company was ordered to pay 8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan Cuba and Iran.	Even though were going to have this policy in place doesnt mean at the same time well right away cut all the clients that dont fall under it Mylene Benmoussa a BNP Paribas spokeswoman told HuffPost by phone on Wednesday.	For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing an aggressive climate policy makes business sense.	False
As president I have one obligation and that obligation is to the Americanpeople Trump said during a speech in theRose Garden announcingthe decision.	California Gov.	Were moving forward.	We believe the rest of the world will do the same.	Jerry Brown said he hopes Trump's insane move to back out of the Paris accord will spur others to action.	False
One of the most touted projects it has steered donors to is Participant Media an activist entertainment company that produces movies with a message.	Among the films Participant has championed are George Clooneys CIA conspiracy thrillers Al Gores climate change documentaries and a docudrama celebrating Ruth Bader Ginsburgs legal career.	A clear giveaway is that the movie begins with the disclaimer inspired by true events rather than the more commonly used based on a true story.	No one doubts that there was real liability in the case but Dark Waters is a conspiracy horror movie that ignores facts to shake up its audience.	But the film has served as a springboard for calls to environmental activism.	False
Critics said the rule was overly broad in classifying waterways that are subject to federal rules while supporters see it as a necessary protection for example preventing fertilizer runoff from tainting streams and drinking water.	The decision was praised by industry officials who had called on Pruitt to revisit the rules but environmental groups said he was caving to special interests in the coal industry.	Last month the EPA circulated talking points instructing its staffers to say clear gaps exist in understanding whether human activity contributes to climate change.	Here are some of Pruitt's key changes Like others in the Trump administration Pruitt has repeatedly highlighted uncertainty about the role that humans have played in global warming a view that is at odds with the vast majority of scientific evidence.	Pushing to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord Pruitt pushed the White House to leave the Paris climate deal stood beside the President in the Rose Garden when he announced the decision and after the President spoke offered his own remarks.	False
Its the best way to send a pricing signal.	He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation.	One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use.	Mr. ORourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas.	Asylum laws Mr. ORourke said should include those who have been impacted by climate change.	False
Jobs matter!'	On Earth Day thousands of scientists students and research advocatesmarched around the world in protest of Trump's research budget cuts.	The president's statement focused on the beauty of nature and the importance of preserving it for future generations.	Our work is not done.'	By comparison last year President Obama's message in 2016 took on an urgent tone and said 'Human activity is disrupting the climate and the challenge of combating climate change is one that will define the contours of our time.'	False
But Ms. Polisi added that there had been considerable substance to a number of Mr. Schneidermans investigations as well as some major successes.	His legal team was one of the first in the nation to target banks for sponsoring nontransparent trading platforms called dark pools which allowed high speed trading firms to take advantage of investors.	In 2015 Mr. Schneidermans office opened an investigation into the mortgage practices of Caliber Home Loans a fast growing lender but has said nothing about the inquiry since then.	The office issued news releases relating to investigations at a dizzying rate with less emphasis on follow through or actual results said Caroline Polisi a white collar defense lawyer who has appeared as a legal commentator on cable news shows.	Mr. Schneidermans big accomplishment in going after Wall Street were the billions of dollars in penalties that he helped secure from big banks that had sold flawed mortgage backed bonds during the run up to the financial crisis.	False
He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species.	The plan calls for ensuring that public lands waters and oceans are protected and restoring and protecting threatened endangered and fragile ecosystems.	Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps.	We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday.	Castro Harris Sen. Cory Booker D N.J. and former Vice President Joe Biden have all committed to working toward protecting 30 of Americas land and water by 2030.	False
Pitting important environmental goals against working families who rely on affordable American energy is a false choice the organization said.	These executives have spent hundreds of millions of dollars protecting their profits at the expense of our future and they will do whatever it takes to squeeze every last penny out of the Earth his website reads.	The American Petroleum Institute a trade association for the oil and gas industry responded to Sanders in a statement to Fox News.	And the benefits are enormous by taking bold and decisive action we will save 2.9 trillion over 10 years 21 trillion over 30 years and 70.4 trillion over 80 years.	Former New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman led a coalition of more than a dozen states in investigating ExxonMobil over allegations it misled the public about climate change.	False
Or so it has been for thousands of years.	another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter who led the research project.	surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.	Dr. Matt Amesbury also of the University of Exeter said there were two main findings to take from their new study scale and temperature sensitivity Before now studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites weve been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula.	Charman said their evidence shows just how fast Antarctic land surface can change along with climactic changes.	False
Etc.	People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs people who deny that a fetus is a whole human people who insist fetal pain is a myth people who get outraged by claims that say men cant get pregnant.	Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	Both GLAAD and Human Rights Watch cant seem to decide whether the science is bad because its fake and flawed or bad because it might work.	The point is that opponents dont like this science because of the political and social consequences of it.	False
It was about U.S. money going to other countries.'	'It simply sounds like a transfer of wealth from the United States to other countries.'	Addressing these risks requires broad based practical solutions around the world.'	'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket and you make them put it back in they're not going to be happy.	'I think the president is right.'	False
They are trying to make international environmental policy Wheeler said of Washington state whose governor Democrat Jay Inslee is running for president on a climate change focused platform.	Theyre trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used.	I do fear that because so many people only talked about climate change.	New York has used the section to delay pipelines that would bring natural gas to New England for example and Washington state has stopped coal export terminals that would open the Asian market for struggling coal companies in Wyoming and other landlocked western states.	Reuters The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will unveil a proposal to speed state level permitting decisions for energy infrastructure projects soon the agencys chief told Reuters on Thursday blasting states that have blocked coal terminals and gas pipelines on environmental grounds.	False
The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell.	1 donorhas been NextEra Energy the Florida electric utility which is one of the largest purveyors of solar and wind energy projects in the country.	Debbie Mucarsel Powell is a climate champion and the advocate South Floridians need as they watch sea levels rise see beaches destroyed by red tide and live with the increasing threat of stronger more powerful hurricanes.	If Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is he wouldnt be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement.	We sure appreciate the help from the NRCC in calling out politicians who take dirty fossil fuel money and then obstruct progress on climate change and are looking forward to similar NRCC ads attacking every single one of their own candidates said RL Miller Climate Hawks Votes political director in a statement.	False
However there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers.	Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?	Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes?	An early draft of the government publication the US Climate Science Special Report published by the New York Times notes an observed upward trend in North Atlantic hurricane activity since the 1970s.	However expects it to result in more intense tropical cyclones globally with substantially higher rainfall rates by the end of the 21st century.	False
Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power medical care to stay healthy enough income to feed their kids education for the children so they can fulfill their potential.	We certainly hope it's possible to do things better to achieve a high level of human well being at a much lower level of resource use.	To find out Daniel O'Neill an economist at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom and several collaborators came up with 11 indicators that a country has met the needs of its citizens.	Then they looked at seven key ways in which humans damage the environment.	They range from boosting life expectancy above age 65 to ensuring that at least 95 percent of its adult population has graduated from high school has access to sanitation and earns more than the extreme poverty line of 1.90 a day.	False
Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	It was Bolton who recruited Happer to the National Security Council and backed his effort to create an anti science panel according to The New York Times.	While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement.	A retired Princeton physics professor with no expertise in climatology Happer has served as President Donald Trumps deputy assistant for emerging technologies on the National Security Council since September 2018.	William Happer the White Houses most veteran climate change denier who tried unsuccessfully to establish an ad hoc panel to challenge near universally accepted climate science is leaving the Trump administration according to reports from EE Newsand Bloomberg.	False
On Wednesday a list of demands was released by a coalition of youth led groups whose lodestar is Greta Thunberg the Swedish teenager and activist who sparked a global wave of walkouts by school students over the climate crisis.	Nothing.	We should be organizing the world demanding change we need a diplomat in chief Biden said.	With many questions focused on what candidates would ask Americans to sacrifice Elizabeth Warren pushed back on the framing.	But most of the responsibility lies with industry not individuals she said adding this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants us to talk about.	False
They've never seen a category like this come in because it came in really at a five he said.	In response to this story a White House aide pointed CNN to a recent NOAA report that found that it is premature to conclude that human activities ... have already had a detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget told CNN that climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	Trump toured the Houston area earlier this month after Hurricane Harvey brought massive flooding to the city.	Hurricane Irma is of epic proportion perhaps bigger than we have ever seen Trump tweeted as Irma moved closer to Florida.	False
Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary.	It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	A policy briefing from the Woods Hole Research Center concludes that the IPCC doesnt adequately account for a methane warming feedback While most attention has been given to carbon dioxide it isnt the only greenhouse gas that scientists are worried about.	Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.	Carbon dioxide is the most important human emitted greenhouse gas but methane has also increased in the atmosphere and it adds to our concerns.	False
We stand for spreading the word about the science we do especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people.	Published with permission of The American Independent.	The intent is to try to suppress a message in this case the increasing danger of human caused climate change said Michael Mann a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University.	The people who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms droughts wildfires and heat waves.	In one instance about research on rice the agency tried to dissuade a research partner the University of Washington from publicly discussing research.	False
We all hold a hierarchy of values.	For most people of good conscience the value of a human beings life supersedes that of our dog or a backyard plant.	Each individual has values good and bad and they often remain in tension with one another.	We routinely delay temporal pleasure for example in the hopes of attaining goals we hold in higher esteem such as when we diet exercise or volunteer.	What is the goal of a funeral?	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices revenue from the tax would be given back out to households.Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one third over a 10 year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050 compared to 2015 emission levels.	Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	We hope our bipartisan bill will spur action on climate change before its too late.	False
By now its clear there is no legitimate public interest in further expanding risk to our oceans in pursuit of fossil fuels that we dont need Lawrence said.	The League of Conservation Voters LCV led eight other groups in a legal challengeof Trumps recent executive order to reopen large swaths of Arctic seas to offshore drilling.LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election.	The group filed at least two lawsuits in April challenging Trumps delaying energy efficiency standards for appliances and the administrations refusal to ban certain pesticides.	Theyalso tried to intervene in a lawsuit against a national ocean monument Obama created.	Theyare living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office namely to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies.	False
To Janet this is a moral issue.	Before I address that question I just stumbled upon an article in the August 1 Washington Post.	These were matters that we have historically agreed on if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildrens future.	March 14 2017 Gallup poll.	Lets take a closer look at this.	False
Under Scope of the Plan a section on labor states the committees final plan shall Require strong enforcement of labor workplace safety and wage standards that recognize the rights of workers to organize and unionize free of coercion intimidation and harassment and creation of meaningful quality career employment.	So whats actually in it?	Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	Its scope and mandate for legislative authority amounts to a radical grant of power to Washington over Americans lives homes businesses travel banking and more.	Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	False
Its a challenging issue.	But at what cost is this being done especially when nobody else is doing anything.	Im taking a very pragmatic look at it in scoping this Newsom told The Los Angeles Times recently.	Its also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry that have jobs communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism.	Newsomunderstands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow.	False
It came after Inpe published data showing an 88 percent increase in deforestation there in June compared to the same month a year ago.	That amounts to an 83 percent increase over the same period in 2018 and the highest number since the agency started recording fires in 2013 meaning it is likely the highest number of fires to date.	The right wing populist Bolsonaro who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazonhome to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so peoplecame to power in January.	The Amazon is burning at an alarming rate in Brazil with 72843 fires detected so far this year by the countrys space research center INPE.	Wildfires are common in the dry season but are also deliberately set by farmers illegally deforesting land for cattle ranching.	False
Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence.	Either way you should stick to what the best available science says not the fear mongering of anti conservative zealots.	This is total nonsense.	The reason the Washington Post and others are consistently alleging despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary that Republicans are somehow to blame for natural disasters such as Hurricane Florence is either because they know absolutely nothing about the topic or because they believe it will help Democrats win elections.	False
Because as the great Samuel L. Jackson once uttered on film Never make assumptions.	Thank you for the question and its a good question.	They only end up making an ass out of u and mption'.	Okay?	Britta used her one opportunity to quiz a presidential candidate to ask aboutmeat.	False
