Meanwhile our ruling class continues to fly to climate change summits on private jets own multiple CO2 emitting homes and advocate for unrestricted trade with pollution world champ China.	An aging populace with fewer young people producing tax revenue means a crisis for public services and a shrinking economy.	Progressive political elites have decided that in order to save the environment ordinary citizens must submit to radical lifestyle changes while those same elites fly around the world on private jets and enrich themselves from trade with China the worlds biggest polluter.	Looks like China despite its pollution does have something to offer the environmental movement the one child policy!	Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone!	False
Third to invest and update industry and infrastructure.	Second to guarantee millions of good high wage jobs and economic security.	First to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions while providing quality jobs for all.	Fourth to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone.	Since 1990 the country has achieved a 38 percent decrease in carbon dioxide emissions and has reduced its annual emissions by more than 43 percent this despite considerable economic growth.	True
The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Last month a series of earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok killing hundreds of people the biggest on 5 August killed more than 460.	The 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque amongst the buildings damaged.	Indonesia is prone to earthquakes because it lies on the Ring of Fire the line of frequent quakes and volcanic eruptions that circles virtually the entire Pacific rim.	True
They call for a bold and drastic change in economic growth to slash greenhouse gas emissions which research shows contributes to climate change.	The crisis touches every aspect of our lives.	The world must wake up.	Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	Biologists ecologists more the Massachusetts Democrat said in a Nov. 6 tweet.	False
Were going down while we have our record breaking oil and gas production.	Contributing to the overall increase were the growing U.S. economy a cold start to the year that required additional energy for heating and the limited progress made in developing decarbonization strategies the analysis found.	Were addressing the issue.	is still issuing permits for oil companies according to Bloomberg.	Former Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke who resigned Jan. 2 under a cloud of ethics scandals told the National Petroleum Council last month that the administrations regulatory philosophy is to partner with the fossil fuel sector which he said was at the leading edge of technology.	True
Among those promises are a 681 billion program for families and small businesses to trade in old vehicles for newer more energy efficient motors a souped up version of the Obama administration era Cash for Clunkers program.	According to the campaign revenue will be generated via a host of measures including slapping the fossil fuel industry with fees litigation and taxes and generating revenue from the sale of energy.	As president Bernie Sanders will launch the decade of the Green New Deal a ten year nationwide mobilization centered around justice and equity during which climate change will be factored into virtually every area of policy from immigration to trade to foreign policy and beyond his campaign said in a press release.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Further sources of revenue or savings includetax revenue from the proposed 20 million jobs higher taxes on the wealthy lower military spending and a reduced need for welfare spending due to the creation of millions of good paying unionized jobs.	In a nod to the social justice part of the plan he says that the deal is an opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social racial and economic justice including redressing the exclusion of black brown Native Americanand other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal.	True
It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate.	False
California the sixth largest economy in the world is in stark opposition to Trumps administration.	California is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health economy and future said Fred Krupp president of the Environmental Defense Fund.	The cap and trade program established in 2006 under then governor Arnold Schwarzenegger sets a limit on emissions and requires polluters to either reduce their output or purchase permits from those who have.	Thats what good government looks like.	As the limit steadily becomes stricter it nudges businesses to take the more financially attractive option of cutting their pollution.	True
Silicon Valley business leaders like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk have also been arguing that the US should stick to the agreement.	The major Republican presidential candidates harshly criticized the Paris deal in particular and Trump promised to withdraw from it during the campaign.	So the question of whether the US should actually pull out of the agreement has reportedly been the subject of intense debate within the Trump administration.	The actual Paris deal agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 is aspirational rather than binding calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction.	Still withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for Americas role as a global leader.	False
Technology could help here too.	It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	Eco tourism is a growing trend that resorts are seeking to exploit around the world as people seek to make more responsible choices in the face of climate change.	Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando who was keen that it should become an ecological haven it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet.	The team's eventual aim is to capture the atoll's whole ecosystem from molecule upwards so it can help local governments and communities evaluate future risks and make better decisions.	False
Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement expanding drilling on federal lands and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks.	We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life.	President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office.	Within the first few months of the year incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them.	The Trump administration has spent two years giving away the store to fossil fuel companies and Republicans in Congress cheered every step of the way says Grijalva.	True
And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth.	The world is waking up.	Entire ecosystems are collapsing.	How dare you pretend that this can be solved with business as usual and some technical solutions.	They also rely on my and my childrens generation sucking hundreds of billions of tonnes of your CO2 out of the air with technologies that barely exist.	False
Lets take a look at how they intend to use it.	Gun control is perhaps the most widely known and publicized issue of the 2019 election.	Senate Bill No.	Section G of House Bill No.	The bill reads in calendar year 2036 and every calendar year thereafter 100 percent of the electricity sold by a retail electric supplier is required to be generated from clean energy resources.	False
This type of work necessarily contains uncertainties regarding the way the Earth's climate will respond in future and how quickly societies can move away from fossil fuel use.	The aim of the Paris deal was holding the increase in global average temperature to well below 2C above pre industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit temperature increase to 1.5C.	To be honest it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time.	On Twitter one of the authors of that report Prof Michael Mann said the latest research in Nature Geoscience doesn't account for the pre industrial baseline issue we examined.	But the ambition of Paris caught a lot of people by surprise.	True
The only way we're going to overcome that is by reducing emissions Gov.	The world is not flat pollution is not free and the health and safety of our children is not for sale said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra standing alongside the governor.	And he said the standards would hurt automakers and consumers who can't afford or don't want to buy more fuel efficient vehicles.	The rules were set six years ago when California and the Obama administration agreed to a single nationwide fuel economy standard.	Automakers have likewise argued that the Obama era rules would cost the industry billions of dollars and raise vehicle prices because of the cost of developing the necessary technology.	False
More President Trump on dire economic forecast of climate change report 'I don't believe it' More Once Democrats take charge of the House addressing climate change will become top priority again	In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time Trump called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation.	It isnt just a coincidence that this is no longer the reality in our country.	The 2015 definition crafted under President Barack Obama would narrow considerably under Trump a move that Wheeler told reporters wouldmake it clearer and easier to understand ... that will result in significant cost savings protect the nation's navigable waterways and reduce barriers to important economic and environmental projects.	waterways and pose far reaching effects on the safety of the nation's tap water for more than 100 million Americans.	False
This is all in the U.S. Constitution Thats what enables innovation and if our country stops innovating it will not be able to compete worldwide.	And my interpretationof the expression useful arts is engineering.	In those days it would be architecture city planning designing of the drainage systems sewage systems and communications systems.	In an interview on MSNBCs AM Joy Nye said that it explicitly states in the Constitution that the U.S. government must promote the progress of science and useful arts something the Trump administration isnt even close to upholding.	It is inherently political like everything else Its in the U.S. Constitution Article 1 Section 8 to promote the progress of science and useful arts.	False
On March 28 NBC Nightly News profiled celebrations in coal country over Trumps environmental proposals mentioning a barber shop in West Virginia where they cheered the move hoping it will bring back jobs.	On April 22 CBS Evening News correspondent Dean Reynolds noted that Joe Bast CEO of The Heartland Institute looks with approval on Mr. Trumps decision to roll back regulations limiting greenhouse gases and to his appointments of fellow skeptics in the administration.	NBC Nightly News correspondent Matt Bradleys July 30 quip that President Donald Trump shifts American climate commitments into reverse was typical of the media attitude towards the presidents environmental policies.	Right now there are less than seventy five thousand coal jobs compared to more than six hundred and fifty thousand in renewable energy which can be less expensive to produce.	Instead it covers specifically the coverage of President Trumps environmental agenda on ABC World News Tonight CBS Evening News and NBC Nightly News.	True
When the air we breathe and the water we drink are imminently threatened so that corporations can make more money life liberty and the pursuit of happiness are on the line.	Robert A. Franek is a part of Politicus Policy Discussion in which writers draw connections between real lives and public policy.	Securing the long term future of civil rights for LGBT people womens access to heath care and the flourishing of our environment that we may all enjoy life liberty and the pursuit of happiness rests not only on getting to the bottom of the Trump Russia scandal and draining the swamp in his administration along with the scandal covering right denying profit seeking in Congress but also on preventing the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.	Without a habitable environment that is safe from toxic waste harmful chemicals and dangerous carbon dioxide emissions leading to an ever warming planet how can anyone be assured of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness?	Amid the billowing smoke of the Trump Russia scandal both Donald Trump and the Republicans in Congress have found time to further their agenda of stripping the civil rights away from LGBT people taking healthcare away from women and assuring that scientific data be kept away from the Environmental Protection Agency.	False
The Great Collapse The collapse of ecosystems economies and our way of life.	First it was global warming andor global cooling.	They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos.	What did his team of global namers come up with?	He said that the new name needs to appeal to people who are unscientific to help them understand the severity of the problem and inspire them to make more eco friendly life choices and pro climate choices at the ballot box.	True
California Democratic Gov.	The newest version of the book The Rightful Place of Science Disasters Climate Change by University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. takes on the often false claims peddled in the media about global warming and disasters from hurricanes to floods to droughts.	Every time there is a disaster politicians journalists and scientists unfailingly spring to life to tell us that the disaster and the costs and suffering that accompanied it were associated with linked to or even caused by climate change Pielke wrote in his newly updated book.	The Times claimed the NCA showed how every part of the country has been touched by warming from droughts in the Southeast to flooding in the Midwest to a worrying rise in air and ground temperatures in Alaska and conditions will continue to worsen.	For example The New Republics Emily Atkinrecently calledfor journalists to put every weather event in the context of global warming.	False
The projectcould harm with the regions economy potentially creating problems fora nearbyU.S.	The base pump 200 million a year into the region and employs over 2600 people.	We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how were going to contribute.	They dont want their areas turned into industrialized zones.	Andrew Cuomos support.	False
Its the biggest threat of all.	Climate change is a multiplier.	Theres no denying the magnitude of the water crisis in the U.S. and abroad.	Climate change is a multiplier Caldas said.	Pruitt said that it wasnt a lack of money that was plaguing the program but rather poor leadership and poor focus on the part of the Obama administration.	False
I 1631 will be a trough of billions of dollars of cash for left leaning social action and progressive groups and dealing with climate change will be a secondary priority Mass wrote in a blog post with a picture of pigs feeding at a trough.	State spending seen as wasteful or geared toward a special interest is often called pork or pork barrel spending.	RELATED TheDCNF Asked Paris Climate Accord Backers If Theyd Support Banning Private Jets.	The imagery of pigs feeding at a trough has long been used to describe special interest groups trying to syphon off government spending.	Curry said the students accused Mass of deception being on the payroll of oil companies purposely obfuscating with multiple twitter accounts racism misogyny tokenism Trumpism.	False
Launched in 1997 and now finally running low on fuel Cassini is drawing ever closer to its demise.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article.	A liquid ocean exists beneath the icy surface of Enceladus which is barely 300 miles 500 kilometers across.	A spacecraft under development called the Europa Clipper to launch sometime in the 2020s could shed more light on the matter.	False
In a statement by White House deputy press secretary Lindsey Walters the Trump administration downplayed the report saying it is largely based on the most extreme scenario which contradicts long established trends by assuming that despite strong economic growth that would increase greenhouse gas emissions there would be limited technology and innovation and a rapidly expanding population.	CNN The new government report on climate change which the Trump administration released quietly a day after Thanksgiving and two days after President Donald Trump tweeted skeptically about the existence of climate change warns that the drastic human effects on the climate could cause thousands of Americans to die and cost the US economy hundreds of billions of dollars.	The Trump administration chose to speed up release of the new report which is required by law putting it out on Black Friday instead of in December.	Brutal and Extended Cold Blast could shatter ALL RECORDS Whatever happened to Global Warming?	That's up from 2010 when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them.	True
The abolition of slavery.	Womens suffrage and womens rights.	In the U.S. the number of solar jobs is growing 17 times faster than the number of jobs in other industries Gore said calling the solar industry one of the brightest spots in our economic revival.	Former Vice President Al Gore said Monday that the U.S. is going through a challenging time under the Trump administration decrying President Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement.	Well the business community does not believe that at all Gore said on CBS Sunday Morning.	True
Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent.	Republican President Donald Trump has rolled back U.S. climate change rules he views as damaging to the economy and announced plans to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement an international accord to limit global warming.	She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe.	Her biggest environmental victory according to green groups came in 2016 when a grand jury indicted Plains All American Pipeline on criminal charges related to a 2015 oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara.	Reuters U.S. presidential hopeful Kamala Harris campaign is finalizing a plan to tackle climate change that will center on cracking down on fossil fuel companies and protecting poor neighborhoods from the worst impacts of global warming according to two sources familiar with the matter.	True
dire economic forecast climate change dont believe2118152002 Professor Happer who has not published any research on climate change in a reputable science journal has been celebrated for many years by climate change contrarians and deniers around the world.	He was formerly a trustee of the George C Marshall Institute which received funding from ExxonMobil and other companies to spread doubt inside and outside the United States about the role of fossil fuels in climate change.	In July 2014 Professor Happer caused controversy during an interview on CNBC television climate expert demonization of carbon dio200107 in the United States when he claimed that the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poor Jews under Hitler.	Mr Ebell who has no expertise whatsoever in climate science or any kind of science for that matter was a member of Donald Trumps presidential transition team news2016dec12donald trump environment climate change skeptics and diverted the focus of the Environmental Protection Agency towards weakening and removing policies that limit pollution by companies including President Obamas Clean Power Plan.	A recent leak of the Coalitons tax filing showed that its largest donors are conservative groups such as the Mercer Family Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation which have a long track record of funding climate change denial.	False
In exchange for getting some of its national debt paid off the island nation has agreed to protect 210000 sq km 81000 sq miles of ocean.	By planning properly to protect our environment we can be sure we are also protecting our people and their livelihoods against an uncertain future.	This is understood to be the first debt swap designed to protect ocean areas in the world.	Seychelles President Danny Faure said Our large ocean brings development opportunities but also responsibility.	What you see today in Seychelles is what we expect to introduce in the Caribbean and other ocean regions facing the threats of climate change.	True
That move gives Californians access to unemployment assistance food aid and legal and mental health counseling and makes federal financial assistance available to cities and counties that will have to repair billions of dollars worth of infrastructure damage.	It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	President Donald Trump tweeted Sunday that a series of deadly wildfires hitting California are 'being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized.'	Trump complained that the water is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean and called for clearing forests as a means of stopping fires from spreading.	But the president's claim about water drew a combination of laughing and head scratching on Sunday although years of drought may be one factor in the fires' quick spread.	False
Its critical to keep the dollars at home create the jobs locally instead of sending the money overseas and creating jobs in foreign places he said.	Why do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel said Jim Wilson a 71 year old retired mail carrier from Placerville outside Sacramento.	SACRAMENTO Calif.	Drillers could find ways around state and local restrictions such as pumping oil directly onto ships for transport but the process is expensive and may not be profitable if oil prices remain relatively low.	A separate letter from the California Coastal Commission warned that an oil spill would devastate the states tourism economy and coastal beauty.	True
In a way that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy.	As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling the reason she called for the Obama era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a reasoned explanation as to why its flawed.	U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a reasoned explanation for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda the Trump administration has had one goal in mind destroying former President Obamas environmental legacy.	The news comes as Donald Trumps Interior Department was in the process of delaying the regulation until 2019 calling it too burdensome to the industry.	True
the former secretary of state asked.	So how do you get a bachelor of arts in science?	Why would he have to have a secret analysis of climate change?	Massie asked.	It sounds like youre questioning the credentials of the presidents advisers but I dont think we should question your credentials today.	False
Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers but it will come at a price penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.	That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers.	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform.	True
I want great climate.	He said Managing the forest is part of it.	At the scene on Saturday Trump recounted a conversation he had in Paris on 11 November with Finlands president Sauli Niinisto who talked about monitoring forest resources with a good surveillance system.	Jerry Brown in the interview aired on Sunday said Changing climate and the increasing drought and the lower humidity and water vapor were important factors.	But on top of that we have this five year drought.	True
We are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	Entire ecosystems are collapsing.	Trump has nixed dozens of Obama administration environmental regulations calling them deadly to the economy much to the outrage of climate activists.	A faction among the Democrats has since proposed a Green New Deal that would eliminate carbon emissions altogether and reorder the US economy entirely warning that otherwise the world would end in 12 years.	While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom.	True
Because when America prospers the world is safer.	1 oil and gas producer in the world he said at a Dec. 11 briefing to announce a proposed rollback of Obama era clean water rules.	The next secretary should respect public desire for strong environmental standards and an end to corporate favoritism.	He told Bloomberg that Trump is great to work for despite occasional calls at 2 a.m. and that if you do your job he supports you.	For all his feigned swagger Ryan Zinke lacked the courage or integrity to face accountability skipping town as soon as he faced scrutiny Evers said.	False
The pontiff said that such actions are usually caused by corporations and an elementary sense of justice would require that they be punished for them.	It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures.	Ecocide is to be understood as the loss damage or destruction of the ecosystems of a given territory so that its utilization by inhabitants has been or can be seen as severely compromised he said adding that such a sin is a fifth category of crimes against peace which should be recognised as such by the international community.	In his 2015 encyclical letter on the environment Francis urging nations and individuals to exercise more responsible stewardship of the created world but insisted that he wanted to encourage debate rather than pronounce on environmental issues.	But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good.	True
It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state funded green energy projects.	Sixty seven percent of New Yorkers support strengthening enforcement of clean air and water regulations even if it costs U.S. jobs compared to 58 percent nationwide.	Three weeks ago over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhousethe governor made a deal to disband the Independent Democratic Conference known as the IDC.	In 2015 Al Gore joined the governor as he announced plans to cut the states greenhouse gases emissions 40 percent by 2030.	Heather McGhee president of the left leaning think tank Demos and the economist Robert Reich called it the most progressive climate equity policy weve seen.	True
Under Obama the United States the second biggest carbon polluter provided critical impetus for the Paris deal by concluding a precursor deal with China the number one emitter.	It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought flood rising seas and other climate impacts.	The Paris Agreement endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC is a bedrock of international action against man made global warming.	Top officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations gathered in Rome Italy today amid growing concerns over the US administration's moves to unravel policies aimed at stalling global warming.	The ministers' agenda had called for discussion of energy security policies to move away from coal natural gas routes and supply sustainable development of electricity sources alternative fuel scenarios and energy access and investments in Africa.	False
As such the agency is often the arbiter between oil gas and mining companies seeking access to valuable resources embedded in public lands and environmentalists seeking to protect the same lands for biodiversity wildlife and recreation.	But nine months into his job at the Department of the Interior the federal agency that oversees most public lands and natural resources the act is wearing thin with environmentalists and outdoors enthusiasts who say his early moves demonstrate strong allegiance to the oil gas and other extractive industries seeking access to some of Americas most spectacular protected landscapes.	To make it cheaper for coal companies to strip mine in watersheds and make it more expensive for families to visit Yosemite is a perversion of American values said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club.	His agency has taken early steps to open the door to oil exploration in Alaskas Arctic National Wildlife Refuge one of the most symbolic and fiercely protected sites of the American environmental movement.	According to a report by the Western Values Project a progressive organization at least 21 of Zinkes political appointees have backgrounds tied to extractive industries.	True
Stop rolling back fuel auto standards.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.	Your destructive environmental policy is what causes climate change.	Fix the EPA dont dismantle it.	Be the solution not the problem.	False
Administrator Scott Pruitt to cozy up to fossil fuel interests.	The dispute offers a cautionary tale in what one critic described as regulatory capture of a state agency by a company with deep ties to the Trump administration and a reputation as an environmental pariah unafraid to deploy scorched earth tactics against its opponents.	The moves by Energy Transfer Partners further fuel fears of whats to come amid proposed steep cuts to the EPAs budget and a brazen campaign by U.S.	Theyve offered options when we were stuck.	The company has flagrantly challenged the OEPAs authority infuriating the agency and eliciting a rare public investigation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC the federal agency that regulates interstate electricity and natural gas operations.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	But he added Im also not going to destroy our economy.	On Sunday mornings edition of CNNs State of the Union host Jake Tapper pressed Rubio about the recent United Nations report on climate change which predicts global catastrophe if carbon emissions are not cut dramatically in the next 12 years.	Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is contributing to climate change Icant tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity.	Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet.	True
In order to unleash the power of the American economy our government must encourage production of American energy.	President Trump acted in America's best interest moving away from a flawed agreement that placed too heavy a burden on American jobs and opening the door to a new agreement that reaches the right balance.	The decision by the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change is a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security.	The Secretary General remains confident that cities states and businesses within the United States along with other countries will continue to demonstrate vision and leadership by working for the low carbon resilient economic growth that will create quality jobs and markets for 21st century prosperity.	Future generations will look back on President Trump's decision as one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing.	True
Measures like Colorados anti fracking Proposition 112 and Washington states Initiative 1631 to price carbon emissions were defeated in part due to a firehose of money being unleashed by fossil fuel interests.	In fact as governor I would like to get us on the road to 100 percent Sisolak said in a campaign ad.	But dont expect too much from a divided Congress and a president who is lackadaisical about whether climate change is even a problem.	Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U turn going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025.	What that means is that the bulk of climate change and energy advances were going to see in the United States over the next two years will come up through state legislatures and governors offices.	True
Because many cant economically right?	He spoke with NewsHour economics correspondent Paul Solman for Thursdays Making Sene segment on flood insurance.	Dont they override or mightnt they override the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?	The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity.	Just since the start of the industrial revolution weve increased the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by about 40 percent.	True
Along with the oil companies the plans corporate backers include Johnson Johnson Unilever PepsiCo and Procter Gamble.	A tax and dividend plan would cut American carbon pollution even as the Trump administration withdraws from the Paris climate accord the group says.	In a statement the current chief executive of Exxon Mobil Darren W. Woods said the company was encouraged by the climate groups proposal which aligns closely with our longstanding principles.	Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking Steven Chu a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama Michael R. Bloomberg the former New York mayor and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata.	In 2009 the companys chief executive Rex W. Tillerson who is now secretary of state called carbon taxes a more direct a more transparent and a more effective approach than a cap and trade proposal Congress was considering at the time.	True
One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said What are you doing?	By day Pruitt was touting his rollback efforts to make it easier for energy companies and utilities to save money by polluting and by night he slept peacefully in a bed owned by someone who energy companies and utilities hire to do their bidding on Capitol Hill.	As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitts conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement however its important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting.	Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants.	In places like and on the weve seen the tragedies that coal ash spills and leaks can cause by devastating communities contaminating water and sending people to the hospital.	True
Congress should address that at some point.	... Those are things so important to citizens of Florida right now and to discuss the cause and effect of these storms there's the... place and time to do that it's not now.	Here's the issue Pruitt told CNN in a phone interview.	My focus has to be on ... these areas that I described he said.	He continued What we need to focus on is access to clean water addressing these areas of superfund activities that may cause an attack on water these issues of access to fuel.	False
The government encouraged mining and drilling while knowing full well the hazards caused by burning these fuels namely climate change.	They described the injunction request as an ambitious attempt to throttle important government functions superintending broad swaths of the national economy.	Numerous experts including retired Navy Vice Admiral Lee Gunn economist Joseph Stiglitz and climate scientist Eric Rignot have also filed amicus briefs supporting the injunction against new federal fossil fuel development.	The suit alleges that not only did the federal government fail to act to limit climate change it profited off of selling coal oil and gas rights.	But if they succeed they could set critical precedents lead to billion dollar payouts and radically reshape the effort to limit global warming.	True
Banning nuclear energy.	Ending oil and gas exploration and extraction on public lands.	Taxing carbon pollution.Some called it a carbon fee others called it a carbon tax.	No compromises on the road to utopia.	Set aside for the moment the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours seven consecutive hours of prime time programming to the subject.	True
A huge monument spanning nearly 500000 acres and proclaimed in May 2014.	Roxanne Quimby co founder of Burts Bees cosmetics and her foundation purchased tracts of land in the northern reaches of Maine with the purpose of creating a national park.	The enormous 8.5m acre monument in the south Pacific was declared by Bush in January 2009.	Declared by President George W Bush in 2009 and expanded by Obama in 2014 the monument covers 480000 square miles in marine areas to the south and west of Hawaii.	The area was protected to safeguard an ecosystem of deep sea corals three species of whale and an endangered species of sea turtle the Kemps ridley.	True
That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost.	The permafrost that covers great swaths of Siberia northern Canada Alaska and Greenland is warming twice as fast as other parts of the planet and could be gone by midcentury causing more warming and releasing gigatonnes of carbon dioxide and methane.	He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate near surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century.	When permafrost melts microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide causing even more warming.	False
While Zinke works the logging angle Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross have attempted to connect devastating California wildfires to a longstanding fight between farmers and environmentalists over water resources.	This has to do with active forest management.	Ive heard the climate change argument back and forth.	They go to the same little trough of Kool Aid every day.	Coming in at No.	False
In the Roosevelt Room of the White House Trump said the United States is blessed with wonderful natural resources including offshore oil and natural gas reserves which can be harnessed to stimulate energy production and job growth.	The move was swiftly condemned by environmentalists but Trump hailed it as a victory for the economy.	This deprives our country of potentially thousands and thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in wealth.	And today were unleashing American energy and clearing the way for thousands and thousands of high paying American energy jobs Trump said before signing the order.	Trumps signing of the America First Offshore Energy Strategy comes a day before the Peoples Climate March an international protest against Trumps energy and environmental policies.	True
House Democrats ran on and won on our bold campaign for a 1 trillion investment in our infrastructure that will make our communities more resilient to the climate crisis while creating 16 million new good paying jobs across the country Pelosis statement read.	Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy.	California is burning.	We're running out of time to act.	We'll pass a win the solutions we need.	False
WASHINGTON President Trump'slatest effort to boost the nation's manufacturing sector is an industry friendly rewrite of air quality regulations he says pose unnecessary and outdated barriers to growth.	The president's primary aim the directive states is promoting domestic manufacturing and job creation.	One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an expresspriority saidJohn Walke director of theNatural Resources Defense Council's clean air program.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters.	Building or expanding major projects such as highways and manufacturing plants in these non attainment areas requires extra time and cost to make sure the increased industrial activity won't worsen air quality.	True
ORourkes measures include U.S. re entry into the Paris Climate Agreement ordering a reduction in methane emissions from oil and gas operations halting new drilling leases on federal land and restoring pollution standards for power plants.	The greatest threat we face which will test our country our democracy every single one of us is climate change ORourke said in a statement.	The plan lays out a series of executive actions that would reverse the energy dominance policies of President Donald Trump who has been rolling back environmental regulation to increase domestic fossil fuels production.	Reuters U.S. presidential candidate Beto ORourke on Monday laid out one of the most detailed climate policies so far in the crowded Democratic field calling for a 5 trillion investment in clean energy technology and infrastructure over 10 years with a goal of reaching net zero emissions by 2050.	The plan appears to align with some of the principles of the Green New Deal a bold set of policy goals introduced by congressional Democrats that would transform the U.S. energy economy to 100 percent renewable sources by 2030 using federal funds to invest in modern infrastructure and green job programs.	True
We need to get there by breaking down monopolies and increasing competition.	I will take a balanced approach to governing.	How do you change infrastructure so we run on clean energy rather than fossil fuels?	Virginia Del.	Now the monopolies critics fear that the companies which extract fossil fuels and generate energy in addition to transmitting it will seek to water down any efforts to combat climate change.	True
In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms Moebius Clune wrote that references to economic growth emerging business opportunities in the rural US agro tourism and improved aesthetics should be tolerated if not appreciated by all.	On 16 February a staffer named Tim Hafner write to Bramblett I would like to know correct terms I should use instead of climate changes and anything to do with carbon ...	Namely that priority is climate change.	Please visit with your staff and make them aware of this shift in perspective within the executive branch.	In a separate email to senior employees on 24 January just days after Trumps inauguration Jimmy Bramblett deputy chief for programs at the NRCS said It has become clear one of the previous administrations priority is not consistent with that of the incoming administration.	True
Its part of a national campaign from environmental activists to push public officials to say no to money from the coal oil and natural gas industries.	Joining RGGI would be a key way to finance this transition toward cleaner energy with revenue coming from auctioning off carbon credits.	So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	Many are already starting to feel the effects of the melting ice and warming oceans that result from rising average temperatures.	With Congress deadlocked and President Donald Trump pulling the United States out of the Paris climate agreement Virginias election also highlights how the biggest opportunities to curb greenhouse gases are occurring at the state level.	True
But Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a far right climate skeptic who took office this year with a promise to boost development in Latin Americas biggest economy questioned whether offers of international aid mask a plot to exploit the Amazons resources and weaken Brazilian growth.	Deep ramifications Trump would cost General Motors billions if he actually orders business out of China On Tuesday some clouds and a blue sky were partly visible in the Porto Velho morning light.	Amazon fires What would the Earth be like without the Amazon rainforest?	We have fires every year.	Others said in an open letter that the governments discourse and measures are leading to a collapse in federal environmental management and stimulate environmental crimes inside and outside the Amazon.	False
And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth.	The world is waking up.	Entire ecosystems are collapsing.	How dare you pretend that this can be solved with business as usual and some technical solutions.	They also rely on my and my childrens generation sucking hundreds of billions of tonnes of your CO2 out of the air with technologies that barely exist.	True
Not only that but many of the Trump administration's early policy decisions prioritised economic growth over environmental protection and Mr Tillerson continues to insist that American climate policy remains under review.	We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States.	Climate change was the biggest issue at the biennial meeting of the Arctic Council in Fairbanks which was overshadowed by the uncertainties over Mr Trump's policy.	Mr Trump is to decide whether the US will leave or reduce its commitments to the Paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions which was negotiated by around 200 nations and signed in 2015.	The thrust of the text argues Prof John Walsh chief scientist at the University of Alaska's International Arctic Research Center actually echoes the approach of the Obama administration.	False
In contrast the UK is currently on a trade mission in Brazil attempting to forge closer ties post Brexit.	Relations between Europe and Brazil are at a low which has worried the powerful agriculture sector.	The Amazon rain forest the lungs which produces 20 of our planets oxygen is on fire.	We feel the climate changing and the world needs the forest.	Handech Wakana Mura another local leader within the forest said With each passing day we see the destruction advance deforestation invasion and logging.	False
We call on Congress to put the Green in the Green New Deal Wednesdays letter reads by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this countrys middle class to make family farming economically viable again and to help reverse climate change and improve Americas air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again.	But zeroing out the countrys planet heating emissions by mid century requires a transformation in agriculture as dramatic as shifting the energy sector away from fossil fuels the letter says.	We believe these climate goals are achievable the letter argues but only if the GND includes policies that spur two large scale transitions the transition away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy alternatives and the transition away from industrial agriculture toward family farm based organic and regenerative farming and land use practices that improve soil health and draw down and sequester carbon.	called for breaking up agriculture monopolies as part of her broad rural platform.	Farmers Ranchers for a Green New Deal threw its weight behind the sweeping industrial plan outlined in a resolution that Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. proposed in February.	False
The question for America is pretty simple either we want a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington telling us what we cant do or we empower American innovators to unlock things that we can do the Florida congressman said at a press conference in front of the Capitol building.	The plan comes in response to the Green New Deal a once fringe policy that seeks to overhaul the nations economy and energy use to combat climate change and combat income inequality.	EVIL' His plan which he is putting forward in a House resolutioninvolves a number of planks including revisitingglobal trade and intellectual property policies to create an international marketplace fair to American innovators.	In the press conference Gaetz made references to FAQs released by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs D N.Y. office that said the deal aims to upgrade or replace every building for energy efficiency and render air travel unnecessary while joking about getting rid of farting cows.	I would not call it the greatest crisis no he said.	True
The meeting included about 40 climate scientists economists lawyers and other experts to discuss the possible creation by the Trump administration of a Red Team Blue Team exercise on climate change he wrote.	The people believe them.	I would go right down to the core starting with the question How much do human emissions increase atmospheric carbon dioxide?	Todays climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations like China to save our climate.	He was never assigned to work on climate change and holds a doctorate in economics not atmospheric science or climatology and his comments on the finding were deemed to be the product of rushed and at times shoddy scholarship according to a 2009 analysis by The New York Times.	False
It covers areas such as the management of natural resources territorial rights and the environment.	It is an important step in the easing of regional tensions but the deal over the world's largest inland body of water matters for several reasons.	It's difficult to say as the final text of the deal is yet to be published.	This binding document sets rules on how countries can use the world's oceans.	Russia a major exporter of gas and oil to Europe has previously objected to this.	False
This story is part of a group of stories called Vox Sentences is your daily digest for whats happening in the world.	Your daily wrap up for the day in news.	Financial Times Were in a very politically difficult time right now where weve got one key world leader denying climate change so its very hard to get other countries to move forward when youve got such a critical country playing a spoiling role said Ian Fry a delegate from Tuvalu.	Roll Call Michael Macagnone The Council on Foreign Relations Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters granting political agency dividing up federal funds and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations.	The news but shorter.	False
In a separate May 2017 Gallup survey just 2 percent of Americans listed create more green jobs as the best policy to increase employment in the United States compared to 19 percent who listed keep manufacturing jobs hereStop sending overseas.	Voters aged 18 29 ranked green jobs as their No.	In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	Without an environmental focus Trump voters in support of guaranteed jobs dropped to 30 percent with 45 percent opposed.	Despite the rapid construction of renewable energy infrastructure the United States the worlds largest per capita emitter is aggressively bolstering its fossil fuel production.	False
Event attributionthe ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warmingis exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst even according to true believers.	At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012 one participant argued that given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims they are unjustifiably speculative basically unverifiable and better not made at all.	If attributing changes in migratory patterns of songbirds to global warming after a mere 12 years of observation strikes readers as highly suspicious thats probably because it is.	They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory.	Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude with unusual modesty that better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming.	False
Although no overseas military installations were listed the report noted the widely recognized impact climate change has on fragile regions particularly in Africa and Asia and the instability and conflict it can create.	And it flagged the way climate change will create new security challenges in the Arctic where melting ice means greater access but also greater international competition for the waterways.	It lists a few projects the defense department has undertaken with partner countries and notes the need to consider how drought and desertification impact overseas bases and missions.	The report acknowledges that the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to Department of Defense missions operational plans and installations.	And despite the global impact of climate change it didn't list a single US military installation outside the United States.	False
Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach.	When tanks leak harmful chemicals such as oil gas benzene and toluene into soil and ground water drinking water and soil are fouled community health is jeopardized and economic development is crippled.	Most are service stations but they also include any operation where fuel is stored underground such as government fleet garages large retail operations like Costco stores that sell gas and institutions like hospitals or universities that store fuel to power emergency generators.	Loss of program funding would reverse this trend.	False
The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43 page document which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry.	The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers said Hal Quinn president and CEO of the National Mining Association.	Liz Perera climate policy director for the Sierra Club said repealing the Clean Power Plan is about one thing and one thing only helping corporate polluters profit.	Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.	WASHINGTON The Trump administration is moving to roll back the centerpiece of President Barack Obama's efforts to slow global warming seeking to ease restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions from coal fired power plants.	False
By replacing onerous regulations with high yet achievable standards we can continue America's historic energy production keep energy prices affordable and encourage new investments in cutting edge technology that can then be exported around the world said Wheeler.	This is the latest in a series of efforts the Trump administration has taken to help the coal business.	This latest administration effort to boost fossil fuel industries comes as leaders from nearly 200 countries are meeting in Poland to discuss how to keep greenhouse gasses out of the atmosphere.	And amid reports that CO2 emissions are rising again as well as the administration's own report that climate change is causing more severe weather more frequently and could eventually hurt the U.S. economy.	Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science public safety and reality said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	True
Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale.	I regret to inform you that Tuvalu cannot accept this document.58 Frys speech to the conference was a highly impassioned plea for countries around the world to address the issues of man made global warming resulting in climate change.	It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.	In his speech Fry claimed man made global warming to be currently the greatest threat to humanity and ended with an emotional the fate of my country rests in your hands.59 Tuvalus plightalso formed part of the basis for arguably the most hysterical fake news claim in the history of climate alarmism the UNs prediction that by the end of 2010 climate change would have created 50 million environmental refugees.	False
And the forecast for the future is another two feet of sea if there was another two feet of sea level rise what would that mean for Tangier Island?	Eskridge faced the climate warming alarmist during a CNN town hall on global warming.	Eskridges plight to save his island reached mainstream media attention when President Donald Trump called him after seeing a CNN report about the disappearing islands Trump supporting mayor.	And I have a crab house business out on the water.	What do you think the erosion is due to mayor?	False
The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape does not support the scenario of over exploitation.	We contest the common narrative that past human environment interactions must always be one of over exploitation and degradation.	Pastoralism nomadic or semi nomadic cattle herders blossomed in the Sahara from around 1000 years before that collapse.	It's a good adaptation to the climate change taking place at the time.	Our study shows that increasing human population and sustainable pastoralism did not accelerateand may even have delayedthe decline of the 'Green Sahara'.	True
Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	Lastly the Green New Deal which doesnt exactly reveal how it will be funded except for the suggestion that the Federal Reserve could step in and extend credit.	Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right?	The Green New Deal pushed by freshman New York Democrat Alexandra Ocasio Cortez attempts to radically transform the country including rendering air travel obsolete move the U.S. to rely completely on renewable energy with net zero emissions and guarantee economic security even for people who are unwilling to work.	And imagine what wages will need to be to pay for billion dollar per kilowatt electricity.	True
The Trump administrationsays this and other Obama era rules hinder the American economy and create a stultifying business environment.	Trumps executive order was largely aimed at halting the Clean Power Plan whichrequired states to slash carbon dioxide emissions from coal power plants.	Hehas engaged in a months long investigation into whether Exxon Mobilillegally hid internal climate research from the public and shareholders.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request fromthe Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama era policy known as the Clean Power Plan.	False
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a not for profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	The Heartland Institute calls itself a leading free market thinktank.	It rejects decades of science saying fossil fuel emissions are altering the climate and says on its website that curbing use of petroleum and coal to fight climate change would squander one of Americas greatest comparative advantages among the worlds nations.	An email last February shows Bast forwarded to followers an email with the line From the White House rallying activists to public hearings the EPA was then holding around the country on repealing an Obama era power plan meant to curb fossil fuel emissions.	If you send a list we will make sure an invitation is sent Konkus wrote to the then Heartland president Joseph Bast in May 2017 seeking suggestions on scientists and economists the EPA could invite to an annual EPA public hearing on the agencys science standards.	True
At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one.	Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another.	Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses.	True
There is no doubt that the greenhouse gas emissions driving climate change pose a significant threat to Maine and the nation Collins said adding that pollution from coal fired power plants threatens Maines natural resources from our working forests fishing and agricultural industries to tourism and recreation.	However the policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	During his time as acting administrator Andrew Wheeler has been seen as a thoughtful leader who understands the need for sensible environmental policies said Michelle Bloodworth the groups president and CEO.	Sen. John Barrasso R Wyo.	VIDEO At his confirmation hearing in January Wheeler told lawmakers that climate change is a huge issue but not the greatest crisis.	False
He explains how their spread is devastating marine food chains and ecosystems and how illegal fishing of natural jellyfish predators like tuna and turtles has left the coast clear for them to multiply.	It's an idea the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization is encouraging too.	There are at least four times as many jellyfish in the Mediterranean now as there were in 2004 with global climate change pollution and overfishing mostly to blame.	I select my piece.	Join the conversation find us on Facebook Instagram Snapchat and Twitter.	True
350.org an international environmental group is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video.	Climate change is already happening.	RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday.	False
This is going to be the Great Society the moon shot the civil rights movement of our generation she said.	Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. who has made championing a so called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday.	That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require.	In the 2016 presidential election Sanders staked out the most ambitious climate platform of any candidate vowing to slash carbon dioxide pollution 40 percent by 2030 end fossil fuel subsidies and ban fracking.	Speakers included 350.org founder Bill McKibben The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones activist and Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinezand MayorDale Rossof deep red Georgetown Texas whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism.	True
The initial rollout of the Green New Deal a sweeping proposal to overhaul the U.S. economy and taken seriously society itself was supposed to follow a script like this.	Another problem which compounds the first is that they get greedy.	The Green New Deal as presented by Representative Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D. N.Y. includes high quality health care for everyone guaranteed jobs paid vacations a living wage and retirement security.	Following Hollywood convention once you got past the part where the maverick scientist or precocious kid discovering it struggles to convince the world about the threat youd expect the president or the military to leap into action.	The United Nations opened the bidding by announcing last year that we had twelve years to keep the pace of climate change from accelerating too fast to contain the damage.	False
The Energy Information Administration projected CPP would result in 1.23 trillion in lost gross domestic product GDP in 2014 dollars from 2020 to 2030 with an average annual GDP loss of 112 billion.	During the 2016 presidential campaign Trump said the United States faces numerous problems more important than climate change and he pledged to eliminate environmental policies hampering economic growth and domestic energy development targeting the CPP by name.	CPP was the centerpiece of the Obama administrations effort to move the United States away from the use of fossil fuels beginning with coal to fight climate change.	Relying on unsubstantiated projections produced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the EPA determined carbon dioxide emissions from cars and industry threaten human welfare.	CPP would have dramatically raised energy costs in United States harming the poorest among us more than the rest and putting U.S. industries at a competitive disadvantage in the global economy.	True
Were there oceans?	Were there ponds?	The researchers write that the ratio found in one sample provides the oldest evidence for autotrophs organisms that can produce their own food either through photosynthesis or by using inorganic compounds such as sulphur in their environment.	For the moment it looks very convincing he added.	It adds to evidence that the Earth at that time had surface water and other conditions to support life and wasn't as hot and as inhospitable as scientists used to think said Daniele Pinti a geochemist at the University of Quebec at Montreal.	True
We need a vision and a plan to not willful ignorance.	Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change.	As the Post noted the Catanzaro memo offers a glimpse into the challenges faced by the Trump administration on the issue of climate change.While White House officials continue to publicly downplay climate data and adopt policies to expand fossil fuel production in the U.S. federal agencies have continued to publish research showing that climate change is real man made and a growing threat to the U.S. On Friday for instance the National Park Service published a report that said the effects of climate change like rising sea levels and intensifying stormscould damage park sites across the country.	Ignore distort or censor.	Citing an internal memo drafted in September by President Donald Trumps then top energy and environmental aide Michael Catanzaro the Post reported that White House officials had discussed whether to consider having a firm position on and a coherent fact based message about climate science specifically whether and to what extent anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases are affecting the climate system and what level of concern that warrants.	True
We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated.	All of those problems are a result of climate change.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	Wheres the presidents outrage about that?	Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels.	True
Mr President start listening to the people and the scientists not the greed of the fossil fuel industry Sanders said at a rally on Capitol Hill where he was flanked by environmental advocates and two of his Democratic colleagues Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon who authored the bill and Ed Markey of Massachusetts.	This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle.	Climate change is real.	Trump has vowed to withdraw from the Paris agreement and has already taken steps through executive action to begin the process of overturning Obama era environmental regulations.	Trump also signed an executive order that aims to unravel the Obama rule designed to protect American waterways from pollution and proposed in his budget draconian cuts to the EPA.	False
Who knows what a frog is worth?	If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing.	Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that the value of life on earth is priceless and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is too expensive to prevent extinction.	Because who knows what a snail is worth?	If these regulations had been in place in the 1970s the bald eagle and the grey whale would be extinct today.	False
In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it.	The senator from Vermont wrote No matter what agenda President Trump and his administration of climate deniers push it is clear that jobs in clean energy like wind and solar are growing much more rapidly than jobs in the coal oil and gas sectors.	Previously the website housed data on greenhouse gas emissions from large polluters and reports on the effects of climate change and its impact on human health.	We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	The Trump administration has called for budget cuts of nearly one third at the EPA and has sought to weaken protections for human health.	False
The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy.	In 2016 it was dethroned as the America's fuel of choice by natural gas a feat aided in part by a thriving hydro fracking industry that continues to pump abundant fossil fuels out of the Bakken Oil Shale in North Dakota.	'Americans want reliable energy that they can afford' he said at a news conference.	Growth in both solar and wind power has been particularly stark with the former producing 48 times more electricity than it did a decade ago due to cheaper equipment and government incentives.	The US has been shifting toward natural gas which is not only cheaper than coal but also emits less carbon dioxide.	False
Its proved time and time again to be not politically popular and we havent even priced the policy at where economists say it needs to be.	President Emmanuel Macros had originally proposed a slew of new carbon taxes intended to wean consumers off fossil fuels and transition to electric vehicles.	The price hikes however triggered a wave of intense riots.	Some conservatives have signed on to the idea believing it to be a market based approach to eliminating pollution.	RELATED Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administrations Event At UN Meeting Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy.	False
Literally the future of the world depends on us.	But the states economy is heavily dependent on the fossil fuel industry which also wields immense political clout.	We have seen the result which is an emergency of booming fossil fuel production here in the United States at precisely the time we need to be urgently moving away from those dirty fuels Turnbull said.	In 2015 ORourke twice voted to repeal the nationwide ban on exporting crude oil internationally arguing that lifting the prohibition would boost the economy and national security.	The seeds of a decisive and urgent approach were visible in his first campaign visits to Iowa in March when ORourke praised the radical climate change led proposals in the Green New Deal citing his home states struggles with extreme weather such as droughts and hurricanes.	False
The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that.	Controlling emissions from agriculture is also a food security issue.	This is the latest in a series of reports from the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.	And the problem is getting more severe.	The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally.	False
And to me the answer is innovation.	Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal.	The most popular solution among economists is putting a tax on carbon emissions.	Economist Milton Friedman the so called patron saint of laissez faire capitalism who popularized the belief that corporations should pursue profit and shareholder value above all argued there is little incentive to preserve the environment without some form of government intervention.	Obviously policy and technology interact and cannot be seen in isolation with policy stimulating technological deployment and rapid roll out reducing the future level of policy required.	False
A lot of people say well gas is so cheap right now.	As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia Washington D.C. for anexclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world.	And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus.	True
To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator.	Thats almost doublethe 10 year average of 5.5 million acres.	But the Trump administration on Tuesday announced plans to repeal the United States only major policy to combat climate change.	On Tuesday afternoon Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt who sued to halt the plan last year when he was Oklahomas attorney general released a proposal to eliminate the policy without any replacement leaving the country without a national strategy to adapt to global warming.	The Clean Power Plan a set of Obama era regulations aimed at slashing emissions from coal fired power plants and boosting renewable energy production had yet to go into effect after being temporarily blocked by the Supreme Court since February 2016.	True
However the reports authors warned that future warming could exacerbate extreme weather and hurt the global economy.	The New York Times highlighted the IPCCs warning of a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires and a mass die off of coral reefs as soon as 2040.	For example The Washington Posts write up of the IPCCs report focused on the mainline findings namely that the world is woefully off target to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	RELATED Its The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming Until The Next Chance When it comes to droughts for example the IPCC admits there is low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale.	The report says there are likely to be trends in some regions of the world including increasing droughts in the Mediterranean and decreasing droughts in parts of North America.	True
The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia.	In a major report last week the prestigious UK journal The Lancet suggested that pollution of air and water rather than carbon induced global warming is the real crisis facing the world one being overlooked by environmental activists.	Seasonal river flows are changing and floods and droughts are more severe more frequent than ever before.	Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwidethree times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence.	The international summit Water and Climate Meeting of the Great Rivers of the World sponsored by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe UNECE and other partners is taking place in Romes Capitol building the Campidoglio from Oct. 23 25.	True
This really is about interaction economic development.	Turnbull a Goldman Sachs executive turned prime minister is the latest world leader to extend outreach to U.S. governors and big city mayors in the age of Mr. Trump's America First policies.	The group which calls itself America's Pledge notes that its collective alliance has an economy larger than Japan and Germany combined and can take steps to reduce emissions by promoting renewable energy use and climate friendly transportation systems.	On the political side a lack of engagement strength and leadership from Washington and the White House Garcetti said in an interview.	Certainly there's some change in policy at the national level with this administration creating a bit of change and foreign governments are wanting to interpret that said Scott Pattison the NGA's executive director and chief executive officer.	True
We think wererational but where green policy is concerned were little better than the Aztecs Oh and by the way the way were carrying on Western Civilization is on its way out	This gives you an idea of just how badly infected are the nations of the free world by the green virus.	Butyou rarely hear itsotrenchantly expressed by a former world leader as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex Prime Minister Tony Abbott in ahard hitting must read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation.	Abbott himself lost his job as Australias prime minister at least in part because he was found guilty of wrongthink onclimate change which he once famously described as crap.The man who replaced him as prime minister Malcolm Turnbull unfondly known as the Honourable Member for Goldman Sachs is himself a leading tentacle of the Green Blob.	When the wind doesnt blow and the sun doesnt shine the power doesnt flow.	False
The Westinghouse fuel factory turns uranium into several types of fuel for nuclear reactors.	The factory has been operational for almost five decades and is one of a handful of nuclear fuel factories in the US.	In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures.	Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past.	Fuel manufactured at the South Carolina facility is used in nuclear reactors in the US Europe and Asia.	True
The organizers said their goal was to shut down the center of decision making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy.	pic.twitter.comJhjVBr1hU3 Sam Sweeney September 23 2019 Mondays protests come on the heels of a worldwide climate strike on Friday a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the largest climate rally ever.	pic.twitter.comNWIO1aRvM3 Alejandro Alvarez September 23 2019 Climate activists are shutting down major intersections throughout DC.	Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal additional measures to protect indigenous peoples land and a broad push toward climate justice.	Im in downtown DC where climate activists with Extinction Rebellion have blocked the intersection of K and 16th streets with a big sailboat that says rebel for life.	True
Compounding the gaffe the Carbon Capture Coalition's membership includes the country's largest fossil fuel companies not such strange bedfellows for Biden who received a D grade from Greenpeace last week largely due to his lack of environmental policy but less than ideal for a candidate trying to reinvent himself as green.	At least three passages from the climate plan Biden's campaign released on Tuesday were copied directly from environmental organizations CREDO activist Josh Nelson tweeted posting original text from the Carbon Capture Coalition and the Blue Green Alliance alongside text from Biden's campaign website.	Like this story?	Biden's habit of plagiarism dates back to his first presidential campaign in 1988 when he lifted a popular speech from a UK politician that mischaracterized his own family background implyinghe was descended from coal miners and the first in his family to attend university.	Biden's campaign waited the better part of a day to address the charges as the news spread buoyed by anger at the candidate over news he'd lied about marching in the civil rights movement finally telling Business Insider that while they had inadvertently left out several citations from the final version of the document posted to the website it had been updated to include references.	False
None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	While Trump continues to deny the threat that climate change poses to his own properties and the world at large the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco released a report Thursday on the financial risks that global warming poses.	None Turkey's president Erdogan bluffed Trump out of Syria.	Despite warnings from the scientific community developers including Trump have continued to invest in property that could be underwater before long.	Now what does he want?	True
It's where the financial capital of the United States is.	Lower Manhattan is one of the core centers of the American economy he said.	If there's federal money in play it probably looks one way de Blasio said last week.If there's not federal money in play we have to get some private money into it and there has to be some development.	WHAT DOES TRUMP ADMIN'S OWN CLIMATE CHANGE REPORT SAY IS COMING?	This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible.	True
However with a Trump administration it will be if allowed.	Obviously the chart showed that as greenhouse gas emissions go up so does the temperature.	With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria it cannot be ignored any longer.	Merkley displayed a chart composed by NASA that showed the relationship between rising temperatures and rising greenhouse emissions.	Fortunately for the country and the world there are some Democrats who will do their best to stop the Republican party from destroying the Earth with their own blatant ignorance.	False
In a first Washington Gov.	Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society.	Nearly every major declared contender for the Democratic nomination has expressed support for the Green New Deal a movement calling for a sweeping national industrial policy that zeroes out greenhouse gases over a decade guarantees clean energy jobs to millions and puts the country on course to generate as close to 100 percent of its electricity from renewables as possible in a decade.	We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources.	We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources.	True
While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive he is now convinced that somethings changing and itll change back again according to aninterviewhe gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday.	Meanwhile he doesnt want to sacrifice the economic well being of our country for something that nobody really knows.	It projected that humans have until 2030 to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we want to avoid catastrophic climate change in the form of massive sea level rise increased drought permafrost melt and coral reef die offs.	Referencing an uncle who was a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology whom he never spoke to about climate change as apparent proof of his scientific bona fides Trump told the Associated Press that he has a natural instinct for science and that the climate goes back and forth back and forth.	Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA said Democrats should focus on the practical and the opportunistic in the short term while working toward big picture aspirational goals in the long term.	True
They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson Elon Musk and Bill Gates in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton.	Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trumps decision to withdraw from the agreement.	Carlson explained on his show Friday that despite the fact that those upset about Trumps decision have not bothered to explain whats actually in the Paris agreement they assure us that that deal is the solution to the single most gravest threat this planet has ever faced rising levels of atmospheric CO2.	Branson says fossil fuels are dangerous and he calls Trumps decision America first Earth last.	Hillary Clinton tweeted that Trumps pullout was a historic mistake that leaves American workers and families behind.	True
We are hungry Were tired and weak Our babies are sick the plants and animals complain.	Why are we sick?	No one has any answers.	What is doing this to us?	Pollution also comes from the cars and trucks people drive.	False
The reefs and their abundance of marine life provide livelihoods for millions of people around the world so the decline in coral reefs is poised to become a humanitarian crisis.	The islands with no rats are full of birds they're noisy the sky is full and they smell because the guano the birds are depositing back on the island is very pungent.	By killing seabirds this study revealed rats disrupt a healthy ecosystem that depends on the seabird droppings which fertilise the reefs surrounding the island.	Rats decimate seabird populations in turn decimating the volume of bird droppings a natural coral fertiliser.	And we're desperately trying to find ways to enhance the resilience of coral reefs and allow them to cope with climate change.	False
What's the latest on the ground?	Australia may see 50C days 'in decades' The government has been criticised over its efforts to address climate change.	Mr Fitzsimmons said There is an absolute lack of moisture in the soil a lack of moisture in the vegetation... you are seeing fires started very easily and they are spreading extremely quickly and they are burning ridiculously intensely.	What could be wiped out by temperature rise Hundreds of bushfire survivors and farmers converged on the nation's capital Canberra this week in protest.	The BOM says that climate change has led to an increase in extreme heat events and raised the severity of other natural disasters such as drought.	True
I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said.	Tangier Island's steadfast rejection of climate change reflects the rigidity of American opinions about global warming often defined along political party lines.	That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	Journalists and politicians now view the island as a symbol of the climate crisis.	Conservative climate activists like Rob Sisson of ConservAmerica and Mitch Hescox of the Evangelical Environmental Network said the rejection of climate change by Tangier residents is not surprising their groups often have trouble convincing fellow Republicans global warming is a real issue.	False
In an email Jennifer Francis a Rutgers University climate researcher said its likely that increasing drought in Central America is making it more difficult for farmers there to make a living.	A quasi fascist policy of fear mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trumps response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos said Ashley Dawson author ofExtreme Cities The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change.	The president attempted to cut funding forUnited States Agency for International Development by 33 percent this year though bipartisan support for the federal governments dedicated aid agency staved off the proposal.	Now with the White House poised to gut the federal governments only two major rules to reduce planet warming emissions and Trumpthreatening to cut aid to drought and violence afflicted Honduras Guatemala and El Salvador critics say the administrations strategy to deal with climate change is taking shape frustrating national security experts who say hunkering down and militarizing borders will do little to mitigate global warmings threats.	The best way from a security perspective is to bolster the resilience of those countries so you reduce the likelihood of instability reduce the likelihood of conflict and reduce the likelihood of displacement that might force outward migration.	False
Tadzio Mueller a German organiser of the movement argues that massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos.	What risks do protesters take?	This is reflected in demand for training courses everywhere and by the very rapid rise in skills of new activists.	Here is a look at this growing form of environmental activism.	Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience especially among young people.	False
Browns order applies to the entire economy including transportation and agriculture.	University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	California Democratic Gov.	What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity.	Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	True
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a non profit promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	The Heartland Institute calls itself a leading free market think tank.	It rejects decades of science saying fossil fuel emissions are altering the climate and says on its website that curbing use of petroleum and coal to fight climate change would squander one of America's greatest comparative advantages among the world's nations.	If you send a list we will make sure an invitation is sent Konkus wrote to then Heartland president Joseph Bast in May 2017 seeking suggestions on scientists and economists the EPA could invite to an annual EPA public hearing on the agency's science standards.	An email last February shows Bast forwarded to followers an email with the line From the White House rallying activists to public hearings the EPA was then holding around the country on repealing an Obama era power plan meant to curb fossil fuel emissions.	False
The boom in people brings an increase in cars and trucks on the roads and many of those people live in valleys and basins right where pollution tends to settle.	The bad news about air pollutionspread nationwide in thereport Smog and soot choked air is worsening amid heat waves and bigger wildfires as environmental protections are rolled back.	The bad news came fromthe American Lung Association's annual State of the Air report which covers the years 2015 2017.	About 141 million Americans live with unhealthful levels of air pollution the report says placing them at risk for premature death lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	The report covers the two main types of air pollution that plague the USA smog also known as ground level ozone and soot technically known as particulate matter.	True
Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health.	It also stated that the GND would provide benefits for people unwilling to work.	Hes all in on climate program.	A real solution proposed in Washington?	Other analysts shared similar sentiments.	False
But the decarbonization of the real U.S. economy as opposed to the cardboard fossil fuel handicapped White House version continues.	Lets begin with bringing back coal.	And the decarbonization of the American economy the real economy not the fake news economy shows its still true.The world can see and measure America is still in.	But government is not alone.The private sector where companies are increasingly competing with each other to succeed in the carbon free economy of the future is making Trumps climate denial braggadocio increasingly irrelevant.	While coal fades state governments representing almost 60 percentof the American economy are racing forward.In January California released its plan to cut its emissions by 40 percent by 2030 and went on to extend its cap and trade program for another decade until 2030 this time with support for the first time from the oil industry!	False
Its a matter of survival former Kiribati President Anote Tong said after meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama that year.	The study findings may seem counter intuitive given that sea level has been rising in the region over the past half century but the dominant mode of change over that time on Tuvalu has been expansion not erosionKench said in February.	The study published in the journal WIREs Climate Change in September adds to the growing evidence that small island nations in the Pacific and Indian Oceans are proving resilient to rising seas in the face of predictions they may eventually become uninhabitable.	That warning was made in 1988 amid heightened urgency about global warming.	When the United Nations met in 2015 to hash out the Paris climate accord Kiribati joined other island nations in calling for an international agreement to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	False
He was CEO and chairman of ExxonMobil from 2006 until he joined the Trump administration in 2017.	In the late 90s Koch Industries invested in an aerospace company Pompeo founded with fellow West Point alumni.	Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse.	He sold his interest in Thayer Aerospace in 2006 and became president of Sentry International which produces and sells oil field equipment.	He received more financial backing from Koch Industries an energy and natural resources conglomerate than any other candidate in the 2010 elections 80000.	True
Embracing such a policy would send shockwaves through the global car industry due to the heft of Californias auto market.	The trade association represents Toyota Honda Motor Co. and other overseas carmakers in the U.S. We have been working with California on intelligent market based approaches to emissions reductions beyond 2025 and we hope that this doesnt signal an abandonment of that position Global Automakers Chief Executive Officer John Bozzella said in a statement.	There are people who believe including who work for me that you could stop all sales of new internal combustion cars by 2030.	The Association of Global Automakers said consumers must be able to afford the cleaner cars that California says are needed to meet its climate goals.	Rising emissions from on road transportation has undercut the states efforts to reduce pollutionaccording to Next 10 San Francisco based non profit.	False
Want climate news in your inbox?	Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter.	This rule supports the administrations objective of facilitating energy dominance by encouraging increased domestic oil and gas production and reducing unnecessary burdens on stakeholders while ensuring safety and environmental protection the new rule says.	The Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement which was established after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico and regulates offshore oil and gas drilling has finalized a proposal for loosening the regulations as part of President Trumps efforts to ease restrictions on fossil fuel companies and encourage domestic energy production.	WASHINGTON The Trump administration has completed its plan to roll back major offshore drilling safety regulations that were put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster in 2010 that killed 11 people and caused the worst oil spill in American history.	True
Another way to think about it is that Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement is supported in reality by only about 30 of the economy and 35 of the population Hultman said.	The next president must repay this extraordinary climate debt by rapidly moving America to 100 clean energy and financing the decarbonization of the Global South Su said referring to the developing world.	Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product.	Staying on par with those more advanced countries would require the US government to eliminate pollution from coal and natural gas powered electricity plants transportation manufacturing facilities and agriculture.	In addition the Trump administration has also pulled US funding commitments to help the developing world cut pollution.	False
Achieving this goal would require a drastic shift in Europes economy away from fossil fuels to clean energy and low carbon lifestyles.	The French sent us a very clear message they want environment to be at the heart of our lives at the heart of the political game and that message has been spread across Europe he said.	The climate issue is super important at the moment Tran said.	Armin Laschet the governor of Germanys most populous state North Rhine Westphalia and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkels center right Union bloc called the outcome a wake up call for politics.	Across Europe this was a vote to protect the climate he said.	False
But Gov.	It's the damage we are doing to the planet one Twitter user noted in response to the Now This video.	Climate change is real one Twitter user wrote.	Elections have consequences.	But don't we have a responsibility to mitigate the next disaster?	False
Global Change Research Program.	New U.S.	Climate Assessment Forecasts Dire Effects On Economy Health The Trump administration released a major climate assessment on Black Friday the culmination of years of research by the country's top climate scientists.	It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	Extreme weather events could also cause price spikes and interrupt international trade.	True
The United States has a seat at the table.	He echoed Trumps attack on members of the agreement as having economic rather than environmental motives.	The world applauded when we joined Paris and you know why?	We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that.	Theres enough to deal with with respect to the Paris agreement and making an informed decision about this important issue he said.	True
For natural gas companies its a threat to their existence.	Its the only thing that people ever ask about Bruce Nilles who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute a Colorado based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency said in the USA Today report.	But the page linked to on the U.S. Energy Information Administration EIA website is referring ironically to CO2 emissions from the U.S. electric power sector by source for 2018.	USA Today reported that people believe the move is necessary to fight climate change with an eye toward creating fewer legacy gas hookups as the nation shifts to carbon neutral energy sources.	The clean burning properties of natural gas have contributed to increased natural gas use for electricity generation and as a transportation fuel for fleet vehicles in the United States.	False
The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement.	Meeting the 1.5C limit required rapid far reaching and unprecedented change in land and energy use industry buildings transport and cities it said adding temperatures would be 1.5C higher between 2030 and 2052 at the current pace.	The Paris pact aims to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2C above pre industrial levels while seeking to tighten the goal to 1.5C.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	There has already been a rise of 1C since the mid 1800s as industrialization lifted emissions of carbon dioxide CO2 the main greenhouse gas blamed for climate change.	False
He sees it as a clear job killer as an economy strangler and a desperately unfair stitch up by other countries wanting to take economic advantage of the US.	He claimed the agreement would cost the US 3tn in lost GDP and 6.5 million jobs while rival economies like China and India were treated more favourably.	The US contributes about 15 of global emissions of carbon but it is also a significant source of finance and technology for developing countries in their efforts to fight rising temperatures.	Many trade deals will soon be under re negotiation.	The scale of his opposition seeing the deal as a massive redistribution of US wealth to other countries is a clear indication that he has fully bought into an economic nationalist and climate denier perspective.	False
Now instead of independent science guiding the way hired guns for industry will be steering EPA policy on central issues affecting clean air clean water and public health.	The trash incinerator industry provides only a tiny fraction of U.S. power but wields outsize influence in some cities and hasattempted to sabotage the U.S. Conference of Mayors effort to push for 100 percent renewable energy.	For many scientists working in a time of limited research budgets funding from the EPA or other government agencies is one of the few sources available other than industry money.	When it comes to advice the agency receives the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	For Pruitt anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down.	False
Salvage expert Nick Sloane is the brains behind a scheme to tow a massive iceberg from Antarctica to Cape Town to alleviate the South African city's drought AFP PhotoRODGER BOSCH Cape Town AFP It is a plan as crazy as the situation is desperate towing an iceberg from Antarctica to Cape Town to supply fresh water to a city in the grip of drought.	It won't sort out Cape Town's crisis but it will be about 20 to 30 percent of their annual needs said Sloane.	It is a high risk project but also one which may have a very high reward at the end said Orheim.	For Wolfgang Foerg the chief executive of Swiss company Water Vision which has teamed up with Sloane the project has huge potential in the face of ever more frequent drought.	Here we are talking about 100 million tons said Sloane.	True
Other areas could be designated for economic cooperation and travel.	The NIE regularly updates Koreans about the state of nature in the DMZ through videos it posts on its social media accounts.	The data collected in the DMZ took place from 2014 to 2017.	The region should be classified according to value such as key areas with high preservation value and buffer areas.	Over 60 years have passed since the creation of the DMZ.	True
It should be one that centers on quality institutions and policies that leverage competition and consumer choice.	An analysis of President Obamas environmental legacy by the American Action Forum found the negative effect of regulations on economic growth led to forgone environmental benefits richer economies tend to value clean air more and emit less relative to production and led to regulations that were about half as effective as claimed on paper.	It would be a return to conservative basics where industries and technologies excel on their merits not political popularity.	In so doing conservatives will advance the American economy and their political interests well into the future.	Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles.	False
Crops like corn are now turned into ethanol but that raises food prices.	Growing more forests which absorb CO2 is one tactic.	But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals.	This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	In 50 years she says it's going to be very different.	False
They are just funding businesses without any positive results.	Dr. Baatar's CEO Baatar Chantsaldulam said sales surge by 20 to 30 percent during winter when pollution tends to reach its peak.	The government spent 120 million between 2008 2016 to combat pollution with half of the funds coming out of its foreign aid revenue.	With residents of so called ger slum districts using coal stoves to cook and heat their homes in the world's coldest capital where temperatures can dip as low as 40 Celsius 40 Fahrenheit pollution has skyrocketed.	It has reached a point that it is like just any other grocery product that you have to buy regularly.	False
These might include the development of profitable industries for trade with Earth or experimenting with new technologies that might have applications for life on Earth.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	There are several dangers that would face the colonists.	But what should happen after that first step?	It will be essential that we map and evaluate all possible resources that could be useful.	False
All while owning multiple mansions vacationing on yachts and flying thousands of miles in private jets.	The actor also asked if are we too late to stop climate change and blasted the supposed corporate greed of the coal oil and gas industries in January 2016.	In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.	Yet she has owned five homes and a private jet all at the same time.	But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	False
Now the US moves backward.	Climate change is a threat multiplier for much broader dislocation accelerating the complex factors that drive people from their homes.	Our health hangs in the balance too.	President Donald Trump is making good on his campaign promise to pull the US out of the Paris climate agreement a move thats been called a moral disgrace and thats expected to hinder much needed progress in the fight against global warming.	The December 2015 agreement which has been signed by nearly 200 countries aimed to cut greenhouse gas emissions and keep global warming below 2 degrees Celsius.	False
With continued growth in emissions at historic rates annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states according to the assessment.	And Trump has appointed a number of officials like Craft whose allegiance to industry is clear.	The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.	The report goes on to detail the toll climate change has already taken on health quality of life and the economy of the US and how those impacts will mount if emissions are not dramatically reduced in the coming years.	Asked Do you believe in climate change?	True
In truth green economies are those with taxpayer subsidized and government mandated renewable energy primarily wind and solar.	For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries.	All of this is to be pursued through jointly held symposia seminars workshops study tours collaborative research and development projects exchanges and training programs and other forms of cooperation that strengthen the bonds between UNEP and the U.S.	For its part UNFCCC has enthusiastically spread climate alarmism and gone to extraordinary lengths to deny the residents of the worlds poorest access to reliable and affordable electricity and transportation fuel thereby perpetuating their poverty.	Continued fealty to the Obama era MOU runs counter to the presidents goal of American global energy dominance which is anchored to our abundance of oil natural gas and coal.	True
IFO looked at electric car production in Germany which is heavily reliant on coal power.	China and the U.S. are the first and second largest electric car producers respectively.	China gets 65 percent of its electricity from coal power and the U.S. relies on coal for 27 percent of its electric power.	However Congress is debating whether or not to extend electric car subsidies.	China is also the top battery producing country using coal power to produce batteries for electric vehicles that are then subsidized for being zero emissions.	True
Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreements goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities.	The growth spurt between May 25 and May 31 was the largest they have observed since January Project MIDAS says and the inevitable splintering of Ice Shelf C will drastically alter the landscape of the continent and will make the ice that remains less stable.	Rising sea levels endanger heavily populated cities such as New York San Francisco New Orleans and Miami and are predicted to cause 13.1 million Americans to relocate from coastal areas by 2100.	Photo John SonntagNASA via AP In the six days before President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change an enormous crack in an Antarctic ice shelf grew 11 miles according to a report by British Antarctic research group Project MIDAS.	True
Washington Gov.	Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Here is the format The audience will be composed of selected Democrats independents and stakeholders.	It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates like what executive orders they would sign how high climate change ranks as a priority and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy.	CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy.	True
The day before that Zinke lambasted environmental terrorists groups that have not allowed public access that refuse to allow harvest of timber in aninterviewwith Breitbart Radio.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	In California for example humanscaused95 percent of all wildfires with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem.	You can thin all you want till the cows come home but fire will overtake that Spivak said adding what is misleading is people like Zinke and other people who refuse to talk about climate change and how we need to tackle that.	Climate change creates drought high wind conditions low humidity.	True
How does it compare to Europe or the US?	The fight against air pollution in three global cities Why is India worse off than China?	In this episode the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC.	That's one thing that China has tackled.	What does pollution feel like?	False
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	The politically incorrect gift highlighted thecost effectivenessand ready availability of fossil fuels which were responsible for powering the industrial revolution throughout the developed world.	Their leadership is launching a path that the World Bank and its financial organs should follow.	Considering that the World Bank is meeting these days in Washington we hope its leaders will notice that the fossil free movement has grown and is getting stronger.	In this new wave of ethical investing the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record.	False
They are here for the money and thats it Carpenter told KING.	When workers found one of their containers filled with rainwater they decided to dump it onto the ground rather than testing the water or transferring it to new containers.	A contract shows the company would earn 58333 for each hose that was removed for a total of more than 1 million dollars if they finished the project by September 30.	For decades it produced the majority of the plutonium for the US nuclear weapons arsenal.	This fee structure ignores human nature which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught.	True
Read Real Clear Politics it will tell you about how I started this whole thing back in 1987 climate change.	In 1987 Biden delivered a Senate speech warning of the dangers of global warming and his Global Climate Protection Act called for setting up a task force to plan to tackle the issue.	Social media users were quick to criticize Bidens response with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didnt really work out so well.	A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group.	Joe Biden has been roundly mocked on Twitter after making the unlikely claim to a young activist appealing for a presidential debate on climate change that he kicked off the whole global warming movement back in the late 1980s.	True
Economists like public health researchers are limited by their inability to deliberately poison people in order to study the impact of the poisoning.	Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it.	This is critically important for two main reasons.	Climate change garners most of the headlines but the Trump administration is pushing a much larger and broader pro pollution agenda whose latest manifestation is a push at the EPA to overturn a long established scientific consensus that fine particulate pollution colloquially soot kills people.	In addition to killing small numbers of people air pollution harms large numbers of people in small but meaningful ways This is an emerging field of study and it would obviously benefit from some further inquiry.	True
The Peoples Climate March which was supported by hundreds of thousands across the country and tens of thousands in Washington was sponsored by environmental groups labor unions and social justice groups.	In Washington D.C. the temperature was in the upper 80s to near 90 as people gathered to protest Trumps climate policies.	Video showed thousands marching in the streets of Washington where former Vice President Al Gore Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Virgin Atlantic owner Richard Branson showed up to protest as well.	This weekends protests come one week after last weeks March for Science.	As well as an ironic sign In other parts of the country where similar marches and rallies took place the weather was a little kinder to the liberal climate alarmist narrative.	True
Repairs cost about 90 million.	Things are better today than in March 2011.	At Fukushima in Japan an earthquake and tsunami disrupted power supplies and caused the fuel in some units to meltdown.	Other natural disasters since Fukushima have shut some plants.	That is the Crystal River plant owned by Duke Energy Corp. Duke is in the process of transferring used fuel from the spent fuel pool at the plant to dry cask storage as part of work to decommission the plant.	True
In a consent decree reached with Exxon Mobil last October the EPA boasted that the company would spend 300 million to install pollution controls but Schaeffer noted that this total includes measures installed as far back as 2013.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama era environmental regulations as possible.	Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows.	What this means is that the EPA is not going after polluters like it used to.	True
'It is what the public wants it makes economic sense and it is what the world needs in order to safeguard the lives of future generations.'	Coal crazy China tries to improve its image Chinahas stepped forward to replace the US as a world leader on climate change.	A key part of the 2015 Paris deal signed by more than 190 nations was a commitment from the richest nations to contribute 78billion a year to the Green Climate Fund to help poorer countries tackle global warming.	Gareth Redmond King head of climate and energy at the World Wide Fund for Nature said investment in renewable energy was a great business opportunity.	Nick Mabey of the climate change think tank E3G said it was the 'strongest bilateral statement on climate' he had seen adding 'President Trump has driven the EU and China together to write the rules for the clean economy.'	False
Damage caused by wildfires has cost 5.1bn in the last decade Verisk found.	In California recent years have seen a combination of extremely high temperatures strong winds a long drought and population growth causing lethal fast moving blazes.	How do these deadly fires start and why is California so susceptible?	The majority could be attributed to humans though only 8 were caused by arson.	In the last year alone California has seen catastrophic wildfires burn thousands of acres.	False
Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'	Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'	The young activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk fr klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year.	In a speech the teenager also criticized governments for avoiding taking action to cut greenhouse gas emissions and 'not behaving as if we are in an emergency'.	Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'	False
He told reporters that climate change is tremendously exaggerated adding that climate research is important but I think its become sort of a cult movement in the last five years.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Nye who is well known for hosting a childrens TV show in the 1990s scolded CNNs New Day Saturday panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicistWilliam Happer.	Climate models predicted Antarctic sea ice would shrink and that climate change would boost snowfall in the southern hemisphere yet neither of those predictions have panned out.	Happer a science adviser to President Donald Trump made public his skeptical views on climate change in January.	False
I believe theres climate change Walberg said according to a video of the exchange obtained first published by the Huffington Post.	Do I think man has some impact?	On Thursday afternoon President Trump is expected to announce whether the United States will remain a member of the Paris climate agreement.	Walberg was speaking to constituents in Coldwater Mich. last week when he was asked about climate change.	Walbergwho has previously questioned the existence of global warmingfirst joked that he could take some global warming at home in Michigan because it was too cold and some global cooling in Washingtonbecause of the humidity.	False
Additionally his proposed 2018 budget would cut funding for the Office of Surface Mining which is responsible for protecting society and the environment from the adverse effects of surface coal mining operations.	In a letter written on Friday the Interior Department announced the shutdown of the study which was started in 2016 under former President Barack Obama while the department undergoes an agency wide budgetary review.	Some suggest the move may be part of President Donald Trump's efforts to bring back coal.	In February he scrapped the Stream Protection Rule a regulation to protect waterways from coal mining waste and promised to bring back coal mining jobs.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement.	False
Property economy and jobs must serve Earth First.	The Economic Growth discussion is always the same highest and best value a misnomer if ever there was one profits trump survival pun intended.	We must do more with less and the rich must share or move out.	We must impose firm honest value on land and resources and discourage speculative over inflation speculation is not bad per se but it is one of the easiest activities to exaggerate and corrupt.	The business of government is the peoples business developers step to the rear.	True
It was the second largest of the last century in Hawaii.	More earthquakes and eruptions have been forecast perhaps for months to come.	It sounded like 10 or 20 jet engines said Nail.	He was asleep on the couch when a fissure opened up 2000 feet 610 meters away spewing out lava and gas.	This is the first of perhaps more events like that to come Tina Neal the scientist in charge of the USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory said on a conference call of Wednesdays blast which shot projectiles from the crater.	False
PG is one of the world's largest consumer products companies with annual revenue of 67 billion and a stock market value of 305 billion.	When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	It's that natural infrastructure that we're trying to avoid being lost.	We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	Frankly there are a lot of different companies that have moved in the direction of using recycled paper and I have a hard time imagining that they would have done it if it were not economically sustainable Musgrave said.	False
That's why he's pushing for a more diversified economy.	This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	The formula here has worked residents in Wyoming enjoy among the highest per capita GDP in the nation.	And that's really what we have here says economist Robert Godby director of the Center for Energy Economics and Public Policy at the University of Wyoming.	At the end of the day the debate in Wyoming is really about jobs.	False
Human activity such as population growth and transport combined with climate change increases antibacterial resistance... and therefore the need for more pharmaceuticals.	And the situation is set to get even more acute as climate change increases the spread and frequency of infectious diseases such as malaria and dengue.	The OECD said that antibiotic use for livestock is predicted to rocket by more than two thirds in the next decade stoking concerns over antibiotic resistance.	There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health.	Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate related disease.	True
The loss for the administration means it now faces a high profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge.	Circuit Court of Appeals.	This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers.	WASHINGTON Reuters The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday rejected for now a bid by the President Donald Trumps administration to block a trial in a lawsuit filed by young activists who have accused the U.S. government of ignoring the perils of climate change.	This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	False
Related Green New Deal What is it and what does it mean for climate change?	But it also enjoyed larger buy in.	LWCF has protected some of our most treasured natural resources while creating jobs supporting local economies and providing countless opportunitiesfor recreation she said on the House floor.	Rep. Debbie Dingell D Mich praised the program for its universal benefits saying the conservation fund has steered 3.9 billion to some 40000 projects in every county across this country since it began in the 1960s.	If indeed we're going to have public lands there should be access to those lands.	False
U.S.	The country is not on track to achieve that goal.	We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world.	The unfortunate reality is U.S. carbon emissions actually rose last year.	Each country set its own goals and many wealthy countries including the U.S. also agreed to help poorer countries pay for the costs associated with climate change.	True
As a Christian I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible James Wanliss an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author ofThe Green Dragon Is Global Warming a Religion?	If youre grindingly poor youre just going to care about your next meal and too bad if trees get in your way.	His campaign site calls for energy independence and stakes out the vague position Coal mining and oil drilling should be encouraged subject only to reasonable regulations.	The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	In December The Baptist Press the official media arm of the Southern Baptist Convention published an open letter of support for Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitts nomination amid fierce backlash over the former Oklahoma attorney generals rejection of the scientific consensus on climate change.	False
We could tie this to climate change or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money.	And I think it's important that as we come together as a country we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response that we are adapting properly.	The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry which we do not have and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection.	Whether you believe in climate change or you don't you are embarking on some future activity.	The aim of the competition was to award grants to communities hit by natural disasters to fund rebuilding them to better weather future events worsened by climate change.	False
At the most extreme high end that could add up to 10 percent of GDP by 2100.	CNN reported the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars or in the worst case scenario more than 10 of its GDP by 2100.	RELATED Trump Touts Oil Prices Getting Lower As Millions Hit The Road For Thanksgiving However NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes from a 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors.	That 2017 study published in the journal Science was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer respectively.	All told the report says climate change could slash up to a tenth of gross domestic product by 2100 more than double the losses of the Great Recession a decade ago The New York Times reported of the NCA.	True
Exactly what we did to lift millions out of the Great Depression and build the largest middle class the world had yet seen.	And is exactly what we need to do now to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels greenhouse gas emissions invest in the jobs and technologies of renewable energy that will allow us to meet our obligation and allow this country once again to claim its status as the indispensable nation.	Addressing the Green New Deal ORourke summoned his followers to harness the the most ingenious mechanism yet devised by humankind to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels.	The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy.	How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?	False
CNN A new US government report delivers a dire warning about climate change and its devastating impacts saying the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars or in the worst case scenario more than 10 of its GDP by the end of the century.	Along the US coasts public infrastructure and 1 trillion in national wealth held in real estate are threatened by rising sea levels flooding and storm surges.	Farmers will face extremely tough times.	Almost half that rise has been since 1993 a rate of rise greater than during any century in the past 2800 years.	However it suggests that if the United States immediately reduced its fossil fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions it could save thousands of lives and generate billions of dollars in benefits for the country.	True
Trump said the regulations harm U.S. businesses and getting rid of them would help kick start the economy.	During an economic policy speech in New York Trump said he would eliminate the Clean Power Plan and the Waters of the United States rule.	Using the anthropogenic global warming scaremongering and specious public health predictions the Clean Power Plan essentially put the US coal industry out of business.	She wants to shut down the miners just like she wants to shut down the steel mills and steel workers.	In September 2016 then candidate Donald Trump gave an economic policy speech in which he specifically targeted the Clean Power Plan Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump said he would repeal four key Environmental Protection Agency regulations as president leading one environmental group to call his plans a dumpster fire.	True
Its a climate crisisThat is why I support a Green New Deal.	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant because it helps put up a wall of protections around those communitiesaddingI think its just now starting to gather steam.	This systemic environmental injustice will only get worse and become more ingrained if climate and environmental policies like the Green New Deal do not specifically focus on lifting up these communities.	It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate which is how to include low income and communities of colorthe frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate changein the legislative process.	False
Well have an economy based on wind.	Spewing.	Its our air their air everything right?	Wind now supplies clean and efficient power to the equivalent of 32 million American homes sustains 500 U.S. factories and delivers more than 1 billion a year in new revenue to rural communities and states Tom Kernan CEO of AWEA said in a statement.	Whether its in China Germany its going into the air.	True
In the past there has been lots of invest in the stable grains like maize and corn but now we really need to move it to the crops we need more of.	Fast on the heels of the landmark report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC comes this new study on how food production and consumption impact major threats to the planet.	The study says that thanks to the population and income growth expected between 2010 and 2050 these impacts could grow between 50 90.	Tackling food loss and waste will require measures across the entire food chain from storage and transport over food packaging and labelling to changes in legislation and business behaviour that promote zero waste supply chains said Fabrice de Clerck director of science at EAT who funded the study.	We also looked at increasing the efficiency of water use and we looked at better monitoring and recycling of fertiliser lots of it is lost and it runs off into rivers and causes dead zones in the oceans.	False
It is an international crisis.	The Amazon rain forest the lungs which produces 20 of our planets oxygen is on fire Macron wrote on Twitter.	This is the war we are facing.	On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	Members of the G7 Summit lets discuss this emergency first order in two days Meanwhile a spokesperson for the Elyse Palace said that in light of Brazils attitude these recent weeks Macron can only conclude that President Bolsonaro lied to him during the Osaka Summit in June where world leaders agreed on the urgent need to combat climate change pollution and environmental destruction.	False
While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies its more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric whichonly serves to encourage people throughanxiety and panic.	Instead of focusing on the apprehensionand divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters its more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together tohelp one another.	In a hyper political environment pro climate change and anti climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters and the implementation ofstandardized response to these crises.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season as well asthe most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria which was said to cripple Dominica with widespread devastation en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States its important to maintainlevelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speakingtruth amidstapprehension.	In a new study economist and environmental analyst Nicholas Loris explained that climate change simply isnt responsible for Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.	True
Ironically she failed because of left wing communist protesters in Chile Henderson was forced to make the flight last second because protests in Chile caused the U.N.s Cop25 climate summit to be moved to Madrid Spain.	Greta Thunberg tried really hard to keep her zero emissions promise but it has collapsed like all hypocritical left wing plans because it was just too difficult.	I mean you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you cant even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards?	No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	The plan for zero emissions travel was subverted when Thunbergs yacht captain Nikki Henderson 26 flew to the United States from England burning roughly two or three tons of carbon CO2 in the process.	False
That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non governmental organizations of starting the fires.	As European leaders led by French President Emanuel Macron criticized Brazil for its inaction President Donald Trump waited until Friday evening to say that the United States was willing to help only to add that future trade prospects with Brazil are very exciting.	A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country.	Yet his tune appeared to change after leaders in Europe said a major trade deal could be at risk and many on social media started calling for a boycott of Brazilian products.	Much of the attention has focused on Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a long time critic of the countrys environmental regulations who had tried to minimize the effects of the fires.	True
If WeWork employees want a burger while on business the money is coming out of their own pockets.	The companyestimates its no meat policy will save15507103 animals by 2023 according to Business Insider along with16.6 billion gallons of water and445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide theheat trapping gas that alters Earth's climate.	The Motley Fool named it one of the top five most valuable startups in America.	The global workplace startup told employees this week that the company will ban employees from expensing meals that contain red meat pork or poultryBloomberg reported.	More As co working grows up niche spaces take center stage WeWork boasts 6000 employees worldwide according to Bloomberg.	True
But scientists such as Keith and Mark Lawrence scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies IASS in Potsdam argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less almost impossible to achieve the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster.	One of the main concerns I and everyone involved in this have is that Trump might tweet geoengineering solves everything we dont have to bother about emissions.	Indeed utterances from people in or close to the Trump administration most notably GE proponent secretary of state Rex Tillerson who has referred to climate change as just an engineering problem make it clear they either tacitly or directly support the idea of climate engineering.	Right now there are heads of state and others in leadership who are explicitly assuming it could work that its there if we need it.	Keith believes the experiment may help to measure the feasibility and risks involved in GE an umbrella term for a range of techniques to deliberately adjust the climate in an effort to mitigate global warming.	False
On a broader note Im confused.	It was because the infrastructure is falling apart.	The citys communist Mayor Bill de Blasio has run it into the ground with stupid financial decisions and misuse of funds.	In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement.	You see theyve got money to pay for illegal aliens healthcare but they cant keep the trains running or the sewage systems from backing up.	False
And secondly it majors on the economic impact in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation.	With continued growth in emissions at historic rates annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many US states the report says.	Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today the 4th National Climate Assessment says.	This report is striking for two reasons.	It gives many specific examples overwhelmed dams in South Carolina failing crops in the parched Great Plains a rise in insect borne disease in Florida.	False
Canada wants to create good jobs and wants to grow our economy and create opportunities for business.	The clean growth economy is where the world is going and Canada is going to be part of it McKenna said Thursday on Parliament Hill.	We want to be there we want to be providing solutions for the world.	With the North American Free Trade Agreement on the cusp of renegotiation environmental policy could well become integral to reaching a new agreement.	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come.	True
In 2016 then Gov.	Thursdays announcement is part of a broader effort by the Trump administration to end a perceived war on coal waged by the Obama administration.	Coal ash in particular has long been a hot button issue in the utility industry.	They face contaminated drinking water toxic dust in the air and serious health threats just because the EPA is choosing to side with polluters over the public.	In 2014 Duke Energy one of the countrys biggest power companies spilled nearly 39000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River causing one of North Carolinas biggest environmental disasters in its history.	True
And the fact of the matter is that what we talk about is what are we going to do about those corporations?	Im also like actively doing something to try to combat this climate crisis as it stands.	But we have to we can fundamentally change things in the next 10 years though so that we set a path?	How can we trust that youre going to act on climate on the climate crisis if youre still attending fundraisers that fossil fuel executives are attending?	Beaulieuasked according to the Daily Mail.	True
The plan harnesses the power of the free market to solve climate change through innovation OBrien said.	We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit and we need climate policy that reflects that said Kiera OBrien 21 a senior at Harvard University who co founded the group.	The Thomson Reuters Foundation reported on the campaign which runs counter to the stance of the Republican Party and President Donald Trump that the issue is more about globalization than saving the planet Drawn from Republican groups on more than two dozen university campuses the Young Conservatives for Carbon Dividends called for laws to tax oil natural gas and coal producers of planet warming greenhouse gases.	The key here is the dividend back to the people former Sen. Trent Lott R MS who supports the young group told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	The article pointed out that Trump has rejected the climate doomsday scenario and has instead acted to help the U.S. energy sector by slashing regulations and withdrawing the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord both policies aimed at helping American workers and the economy.	False
The New Deal.	And what preceded World War II?	Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	Ocasio Cortez nowwants a Green New Dealto move the U.S. away from fossil fuels and address a variety of injustices she sees in our current economic system.	Themost widely reported climate studyin 2018warned we were on track for a hothouse Earth.	True
Over and over again the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well being of everyday Americans said Eric Schneiderman New Yorks attorney general.	In its first year in office the Trump administration introduced a solitary new environmental rule aimed at protecting the public from pollution.	The reversal of Obamas environmental legacy has been spearheaded by Scott Pruitt who heads the EPA the agency he repeatedly sued as Oklahoma attorney general.	This apparent change of heart followed legal action filed by green groups part of a cascade of courtroom standoffs that are starting to slow and even reverse the Trump administrations blitzkrieg of environmental regulations.	Other arms of the federal government have also been stymied from implementing Trumps deregulatory agenda.	True
Its the same industrythat the Trump administration has worked so hard to prop up over the last two years and that Zinke now regulates as chief steward of Americas natural resources.	And he agrees with Russian President Vladimir Putin that 60 per barrel is a good spot to keep the economic engine in good shape he said.	Weve gotten a lot better as industry Zinke said quickly correcting himself.	We want to embrace better stewardship.	He pointed to energy producers success with domestic shale production noting that companies have been able to turn a profit on oil from the Bakken fields in Montana and North Dakota when prices have been at around 30 per barrel.	True
Wheeler dismissed thereportthis month that found U.S. emissions rose 3.4 percent last year blaming the jump on a manufacturing and industrial surge triggered by the Trump administrations deregulatory effort.	2 job Wheeler said he believed that man has an impact on the climate but whats not completely understood is what the impact is.	In October the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change.	A month later the federal governments National Climate Assessment a congressionally mandated report issued by 13 agencies including the EPA confirmed the findings and warned of cataclysmic damage to the United States economy and human health and by 9F 5C or more by the end of this century.	It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPAs 15th administrator.	False
Violent crimeincluding dangerous gangs over crowded schools the appearance of diseases once vanquished from the western world escalating hospital costs and an overwhelming demand for government services!	The source illegal immigrants.	These are the new problems being faced by small cash strapped cities and towns all across America.	Because of the collapse of communism because the wall has come down because the Soviet Union is no more...the environmental movement is the last refuge of people who favor government over people he said.	No wonder the environmental message has became the cause of choice for the elitists of Hollywood.	True
They will have a harder time having economic growth.	Kerry cited in the interview the millions of renewable energy jobs that have been created to help curb carbon dioxide emissions as an example of how the Paris Agreement and its associated efforts would have a positive impact on the economy but the truth is that the only reason the wind and solar energy industries have been able to survive is because they are heavily subsidized by taxpayers.	NERA estimated meeting the nations obligations under the agreement would cost the U.S. economy nearly 3 trillion and by 2040 the United States would have lost 6.5 million industrial sector jobs including 3.1 million manufacturing jobs.	Kerrys argument that Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris Agreement will cause economic problems is equally absurd.	As H. Sterling Burnett a research fellow in climate and energy issues for The Heartland Institute where I also work as executive editor and a research fellow noted in a recent article on Trumps decision Numerous studies including a NERA Economic Consulting report cited in Trumps announcement showed meeting the carbon dioxide targets imposed on the United States under the Paris agreement would force the premature closing of many of the nations least expensive power plants.	True
means that its safer than ever to transport oil by pipeline.	These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry.	The Fraser Institute a Canadian free market think tank analyzed U.S. State Department data finding that 70 percent of spills that have occurred in North America were a cubic meter or less hardly the massive leakage environmentalists have implied.	Writing in the Guardian opinionist Julian Brave NoiseCat said that the leak demonstrates the risk of technological and human failure inherent in crude oil pipelines adding that indigenous communities ranchers and workers are forced to live under the constant threat of petroleum poisoning.	Somewhere somehow the vile stuff gets out and when it does it causes untold damage to the environment.	True
Chinas Paris accord pledge however has been criticized by experts who saw it as nothing more than promising to continue current economic trends.	WRI played a role in the Paris Agreement negotiations in 2015 and praised China for its pledge to cut greenhouse gas emissions.	Given WRIs close ties to the Chinese government its emphasis on cultivating contacts with various U.S. officials is particularly disconcerting in light of the government partnerships and environmental initiatives involving WRI during the Obama Administration they wrote.	WRI opposed President Donald Trumps decision to leave the Paris accord in 2017 in a statement that also praised China for committing to the climate agreement.	WRI leadership regularly interacts with senior Chinese government and Communist party officials and provides public support for Chinese environmental programs Bishop and Westerman wrote.While WRI criticizes policies of the U.S. government WRI is silent on Chinese human rights violations such as arrests of environmental protesters and the mass detention of ethnic minorities.	False
That could be a big deal he says for anybody who lives works and governs a coastal region.	Since around 2010 2012 we can see that there's been a sharp increase in the rate of ice loss from Antarctica.	So what accounts for the apparent three fold speed up in Antarctica's melting in the last five years?	That's causing glaciers to flow more quickly into the sea.	When we look into the ocean we find that it's too warm and the ice sheet can't withstand the temperatures that are surrounding it in the sea he says.	False
A strong clean energy economy combats climate change while creating good jobs and a healthy environment said Cooper.	North Carolina Democratic Gov.	With historic storms lashing our state we must combat climate change make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters.	Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings.	For example the Obama administrations pledge to cut U.S. emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 was only projected toavert 0.001 degrees Celsius of projected global warminga year.	True
In the late 1990sa crusading attorneysued E.I.	There is enough data to take action.	du Pont de Nemours and Co. over a massive contamination in Parkersburg West Virginia that killed livestock and sickened and deformed many residents in the rural Appalachian community that surrounded the chemical companys plant.	Yet the chemicals remain unregulated at the federal level.	The announcement came as the EPA published its proposal to gut the Waters of the U.S. rule which extended protections to streams and wetlands that feed the drinking water of 117 million Americans.	False
so the incentives are not great.	In an interview with the Flash Report this week Cox said water housing affordability and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle.	Meanwhile the PPIC poll also found that likely voters see drought and water supply as the top environmental issue facing the state followed by air pollution a majority 58 support a water bond on the November ballot and noted that astrong majority of likely voters 69 say that the effects of global warming have already begun.	Environmental issues have been a strong point for Newsom who last year said hewould use specific environmental laws in California to stop President Donald Trumps border wall from being built.	Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category.	False
All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	Brexit could give the UK greater flexibility on how to spend public money on farming enabling much more leeway to reward farmers for capturing carbon in the earth.	Only 3 of the planet's surface is suitable for arable production and 75 billion tonnes of fertile soil is lost to land degradation every year.	In the US some soils are being restored as forests take over poor quality land previously worked by small farmers but others are still being degraded.	The UK is not immune either.	True
And I think it's important that as we come together as a country we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response that we are adapting properly.	The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry which we do not have and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection.	Last year was the Earth's warmest recorded year the third year in a row to set a new record for global average temperatures.	We live in a changing world and as the FEMA administrator said we always have to look at not just the response but the preparedness and the resilience said Duke.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget said climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	True
A value added tax which is widely used around the world is consumption based.	The carbon tax would appear to clash with the priorities Trump has sought so far in his administration.	Earlier in the day The Washington Post reported that the Trump administration was looking at a value added tax or carbon tax as part of its reform plan.	Watch White House says no to VAT carbon tax	A carbon tax would hit emissions of greenhouse gases related to the burning of fossil fuels.	True
I spend 99 of my life travelling the world by commercial he said.	At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	We have to connect people to where that little bit of extra money is actually going.	The money is then invested in environmental projects such as planting trees or installing solar panels which reduce carbon dioxide in the air by the same amount.	He hopes it will improve conservation environmental protection and help increase the economic benefits of tourism for local communities.	False
Instead the administration says the plan rule instead empowers states promotes energy independence and facilitates economic growth and job creation the release stated.	But it's unclear how much the industry can benefit as it faces competition from cheap natural gas and renewable sources.	We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday.	EPA sets the best system of emission reductions and then states set the standards of performance.	Former President Barack Obama's plan if implemented would have prevented 3600 premature deaths a year 1700 heart attacks and 90000 asthma attacks according to analysis conducted by the EPA under his tenure.	True
Ironically the switch from coal to natural gas over the past decade has enabled the U.S. economy to grow while reducing emissionsover the long run.	The plan also aims to provide every American with a guaranteed job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people.	It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	This is the Green New Deal Not in concept not in the future but now Garcetti said as quoted by theLos Angeles Times.	The term Green New Deal refers to a bill introduced by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D NY last week which proposes moving the entire U.S. economy to renewable energy in the next ten years.	False
A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	It's aimed a transforming the American economy by ending its dependence on fossil fuels investing heavily in renewable energy like solar and wind and sparking large scale job creation.	Second principle is let's create tens of millions of jobs as we renovate our energy economy he said Tuesday.	The resolution introduced by Ocasio Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey a Democrat is broad and light on specifics and seen more as a roadmap for overhauling the economy than a concrete piece of legislation.	Its aspirational goals will help our country combat climate change through clean and renewable energy create millions of new jobs in the process and safeguard our environment for generations to come.	True
On Thursday night President Donald Trump smeared the Green New Deal as an extreme 100 trillion government takeover at a rally in Michigan leading the crowd in chants of AOC sucks.	For years positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other.	On Wednesday conservatives leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans Stalinism or genocide.	What Im tired of is us worrying more about the future of fossil fuels than worry about the future of fossil fuel workers.	Ocasio Cortez said that was one reason the Green New Deal movement could not abandon its class politics to secure support from avowedly pro business conservatives.	False
Throughout the economy fossil fuels being only the most obvious example new information has come to light that challenges whether historic price levels of these things are appropriate given what weve learned about their impact on society Roston said.	You dont go through the quarterly quarterly results from Coke Levis or anyone else and not come away thinking that they dont have concerns over limited resources like water.	For the launch the site will include a feature on how communities in South Florida are coping with rising waters a short animated video series on heat extreme weather and the cost of carbon and a multi part graphic on Russias growing influence in the fast warming Arctic.	If you have intelligence agencies around the world identifying climate change as one of the great destabilizing forces theres a massive risk to contend with for any business and any investor behind it.	The business community absolutely demands this the investor community demands this Sandberg said.	True
Corporate America is also moving on its own.	This is a worldwide issue and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India.	It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change.	That means placing some kind of price on carbon.	Tap into growing public sentiment and work with corporations States and cities are addressing climate change be it with zero emission vehicle goals or the regional cooperative of states in the Northeast that is trying to cap and reduce carbon emissions on its own.	True
Its especially important that wealthy countries take the lead on the issue.	Obama massively boosted the American renewables industry via the 2009 stimulus helped negotiate the Paris Climate Accord and implemented the Clean Power Plan to cut emissions from US power plants.	Its a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU.	Its a global issue that no one country can solve on its own it requires collective action negotiated through some forum like the Paris Climate Agreement.	Large population centers like the United States Brazil and the EU as a bloc are responsible for a major chunk of emissions.	True
And his campaign has received163750 from the oil and gas industry according to Vote Smart a nonprofit political watch dog organization the York Dispatch said.	Strauss then yelled a question at Wolf about the funds his campaign got from the fossil fuel industry 98000 during the 2018 election cycle according to Follow the Money.	This bipartisan agreement modernizes and strengthens environmental protections at oil and gas sites in Pennsylvania.	He also announced a nation leading strategy to reduce emissions of methane.	One of his first acts as governor was to sign an executive order reinstating the moratorium on new leases for drilling in state parks and forests and he has been fighting efforts by Republicans in Washington to cut EPA funding.	False
President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	So what would a 10 foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida?	Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	And yet climate change is already imperiling Mar a Lago the crown jewel of Trumps extensive real estate portfolio and his preferred location for carrying out many of his official presidential duties.	In this scenario wed see a 10 to 12 foot rise in sea level in the US by 2100 which would have dramatic consequences for places like Mar a Lago as you can see in the photo above.	False
Still Mr. Castro said its actually what comes next that is most important saying he would impose a fee on carbon pollution enact an executive order prohibiting fossil fuel exploration and development on public lands and spend 10 trillion over 10 years to reach net zero emissions by 2045.	Calling climate change an existential threat a phrase that is sure to come up several more times tonight Mr. Castro said his first move as president would be to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord.	When I was mayor of San Antonio I did believe that there were opportunities to be had with fracking that was going on in South Texas.	An activist from the Sunrise Movement a liberal environmental group asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking.	Julin Castro the first 2020 Democratic presidential candidate at the CNN climate town hall set the tone early in the night by giving a shout out to Gov.	True
For the Serbian power company EPS the attraction of a local supply of coal has combined with a cheap Chinese loan and the prospects of valuable exports of electricity.	By having China invest in over 60 countries along the Belt and Road Initiative it's perpetuating a source of pollution that has been demonstrated to be harmful not just to the climate but also to economies she said.	That's likely to be the same in many other countries too whatever climate scientists say is needed.	With Chinese workers and Serbian workers at the beginning we had some cultural problems but we have overcome them and there is now very good cooperation.	I ask the EPS official running the project Zeljko Lazovic what he feels about such a large and important venture being in the hands of Chinese engineers and workers.	True
Thanks to President Trumps regulatory reform agenda the economy is booming energy production is surging and we are reducing greenhouse gas emissions from major industrial sources EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said at the time.	The largest increase that year came from China.	These achievements flow largely from technological breakthroughs in the private sector not the heavy hand of government.	Today the Chinese account for 30 percent of global emissions.	Meanwhile as the West looks at options to combat climate change we all know that Chinas global emissions continue to rise.	False
The declarations signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day.	Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation.	There is no climate emergency.	Current sea temperatures combined with a weather system over the north Atlantic suggest that a freezing vortex of Arctic air could hit the country later this month Yahoos Victoria Bell reported.	Climate science should be less political while climate policies should be more scientific the declaration stated.	True
The U.S. has become the world's biggest oil and gas producer over the last couple of years thanks mainly to a technology led drilling boom.	We're going to address the climate.	The climate is changing.	Common sense tells you bring the cleaner burning fuels bring the things that bring the emissions down.	On Monday Trump talked about his administration's environmental record saying America can lead the world in fighting pollution at the same time it promotes fossil fuels.	True
Climate is your closet wardrobe.	Guess were at casual tornadoes in growing regions of the country?	The point of the Green New Deal isnt necessarily to save the world but to push socialistic standards for America in everything from how we travel to how we farm.	The climate crisis is real yall Ocasio said on Instagram.	However everyone from economists to climate scientists to Democrat politicians have called the Green New Deal a foolish venture and after having reviewed it personally I can say its a piece of legislation thats really only good enough for kindling.	False
We have to think about the whole world.	So whats your plan for a Blue New Deal for those of us working on the oceans?	Coasts face unbelievable change.	Were trying to step into this void because most of the climate plans are really focused on the big manufacturing and industrial emitters and the big terrestrial sources of pollution said Jason Scorse director of the Center for the Blue Economy at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies and any early crafter of the Blue New Deal approach.	Its not all related to climate and carbon but those are amplifying and accelerating those changes at every level from coastal infrastructure to fishery conservation said Brad Warren executive director at the National Fisheries Conservation Center.	True
Were hit first and hit worst.	By fighting for the actual justice and livelihood of working people you are going to create the political energy to actually address climate change she said.	This is about social disruption Shepard said.	Advocates of man made climate change believe that it causes strong storms rising tides and hot temperatures and that black communities are disproportionately hurt by the effects of global warming.	Leo Woodberry executive director of the New Alpha Community Development Corporation in Florence S.C.	False
economy thefossil fuel industry runs thiseconomy it'screated all of thiswealth revolutionizedtransportation communications industry lifted people out of poverty Watters said.	You have a 21 trillionU.S.	Beto who'sdone nothingexcept lose to Sen. Ted Cruz R Texascomesup and says I'm going to take 5 trillion and I'm going to reverse everything and change it all.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He went on to speculate that O'Rourke pushed his climate plan because he felt guilty about the American economy's success because he and other liberals have not had enough input in it.	OCASIO CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition I'm always going to choose the people of this country.	False
It is good economics.	In short good economics calls for the type of broad federal spending on clean innovation that the Green New Deal promises to deliver.	Zachary Liscow is an economist and a professor at Yale Law School who has served on the staff of the White House Council of Economic Advisors.	The Green New Deal pushes climate policy into uncharted political waters but it does so based on sound economic theories.	While the Green New Deal will not be cheap its price pales in comparison to the damage that unchecked climate change will inflict on the economy.	True
The climate crisis is happening here and it's killing people forcing them from their homes and ruining children's chance of a future said Ian Vale from Save the Children.	With our very existence at stake COP 25 must demonstrate unprecedented ambition to avert ecocide.	Climate change Where we are in seven charts The world's average surface temperature is rising rapidly because human activities release greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide CO2.	We are disappointed by inadequate action by developed countries and outraged by the dithering and retreat of one of the most culpable polluters from the Paris Agreement she said.	But President Trump has said the accord which has been signed by more than 190 countries would lead to lost jobs and lower wages for American workers.	False
This way it actually stimulates the economy Hansen said.	If its a tax taken by the government it makes the government bigger and it depresses the economy.	suggest 55 per ton yields a dividend of 1000 per legal resident and 3000 for a family with two or more children with one half share for each child a maximum of two half shares per family.	That could be done in a simple way by collecting a fee from the fossil fuel companies that would gradually rise over timea carbon fee and dividend.	According to the group which is led by former Secretaries of State James Baker III and George Shultz and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson their plan would tax fossil fuel companies and redistribute the funds back to Americans in equal portions thereby artificially raising the price of fossil fuels and making renewable energy sources more competitive.	True
We need systemic change.	Well gather on the Southeast lawn of the Capitol to eulogize and mourn all that has been lost and all that is threatened by the climate crisis the events description reads.	Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate crisis on the biggest shopping day of the year disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago Illinois and holding a Black Friday Funeral For Future in the nations capital Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts.	Jay Inslees D climate change proposals in recent months.	Congress has been feeding our fossil fuel addiction Graham added.	False
If we really want to protect our economy well move aggressively toward 100 clean energy.	Although these industries are the main source of the carbon emissions that are causing global warming the speakers boasted the US would expand production for the sake of global energy security and planned a new fleet of coal plants with technology it hoped to export to other countries.	I cant believe they are putting profits over the planet and profits over people.	To achieve economic growth and eradicate poverty all energy uses are important and they will be utilised unapologetically he said.	Coal usage in the US just hit a 39 year low.	True
President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate.	Trump signed an executive order in late March rescinding the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory.	CLC says the tax could replace federal regulations and the revenues could be given back to Americans in the form of dividends.	False
'The United States is one of the best in the world at doing this we want to continue to do that but right now the administration is focused on the recovery and the relief efforts and as Tom Bossert said a few minutes ago we'll look at that analysis once we get through the coming days and focus on the recovery and relief and saving life effort' Huckabee Sanders added.	'Not the cause of it but the things that we observe.'	'I'm not sure specifically on the Paris climate deal but as he said at the time the goal is to always do the very best when taking care of the environment and taking proper steps' Huckabee Sanders replied.	In June he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate accord.	In the past Trump has suggested climate change was a hoax created by the Chinese to choke American industry.	True
At his public announcement Trump said Im getting rid of some of these ridiculous rules and regulations which are killing our companies and our jobs.	And the areas that will be hit the hardest are in Trump country the coal mining regions of West Virginia.	Our state is beholden to coal.	Our politicians are beholden to coal.	In West Virginia coal is popular and politicians who support coal get elected.	False
Next to the putrid mix stood a stainless steel tank full of in a sense money all in the form of decaying rotting food.	That amount of food could feed 19 million people.	But in the booming city of Rio de Janeiro a luxury hotel has been turning trash into treasure for more than a decade long before food waste was at the forefront of anyone's mind.	In Brazil food safety regulations prevent restaurants from giving away food yet 52 million Brazilians are still threatened by food insecurity according to 2014 research by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics.	Still the hotel expects the project to break even in about four years.	False
Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica plays a key role in ocean circulation due to the deep waters in the region leading it to have outsized consequences.	It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	Upside down rivers of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up leading to a rise in sea levels.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	True
Speaking at an eventcommemoratingMartin Luther King Day that monthOcasio Cortez asserted thatclimate change constituted our World War II and added Millennials and people you know Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and were like The world is gonna end in 12 years if we dont address climate change and your biggest issue is how are we gonna pay for it?'	Ocasio Cortez who is set to unveil the plan with Massachusetts Democratic Sen.Ed Markey told her fellow representatives in a letter that the Green New Deal calls for anational social industrial and economic mobilization at a scale not seen since World War II.	To coverwhat would presumably be a gargantuan cost it envisions financing by the federal government using a combination of the Federal Reserve a new public bank or system of regional and specialized public banks public venture funds and such other vehicles or structures that the select committee deems appropriate in order to ensure that interest and other investment returns generated from public investments made in connection with the plan will be returned to the treasury reduce taxpayer burden and allow for more investment.	Its a daunting task and Im not sure that the authors of the Green New Deal fully comprehend how much theyll need Clack said.	Next week we plan to release a resolution that outlines the scope and scale of the Green New Deal Ocasio Cortez said in the letter adding that the country's near totaleconomic transformationshould take approximately ten years.	False
Follow him at This story has been corrected to show the percentage of coal jobs created under Trump was 4 percent.	This doesn't immediately bring everything back but we think it stops further decline of coal fired plants in the United States and that means there will still be some market here.	He put America first and said to the rest of the world we are going to say no and exit the Paris Accord.	Trump is not just ignoring the deadly cost of pollution he's ignoring the clean energy deployment that is rapidly creating jobs across the country said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	True
That is my position.	Are we going to stop oil and gas development because of this report?	Neither Bernhardt nor the U.S.	Still the Trump administration has barreled ahead with its fossil fuel centric energy dominance agenda.Approximately one quarter of all U.S. greenhouse gas emissions come from fossil fuel extraction on federal lands according to agovernment report released by the Trump administration in November.	If you have a view on what you want to happen well carry it out when you execute it.	False
You know for too long there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change.	It's always been this country and this country that leads just like you reminded people last Thursday the greatness of America the innovation of America.	And the future of this world will rely greatly upon America and this administration.	Mr. Trump has long advocated for the auto industry and his administration has emphasized that environmental concerns cannot trump economic considerations.	Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers the letter added.	True
The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	And its these three things wealth growth and technology which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth not 240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Here were told that the U.S. economy will take a 10 hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions.	The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed.	True
Trump did not mention rising temperatures or extreme weather although he did tout the countrys status as the top producer of oil and gas and boast about how quickly his officials have moved to cut regulations.	How can a president of the United States give a State of the Union speech and not mention not one word about climate change when the leading scientists of the world tell us that climate change is real that climate change is caused by human activity that climate change is already causing devastating harm in the United States Sanders said.	The Massachusetts senator Ed Markey attended with the head of the youth led Sunrise Movement Varshini Prakash who is calling for a Green New Deal to tackle inequality and quickly cut greenhouse gas emissions.	In 10 years Clement said climate change will be central to all policy discussions as one of the top three or four issues in the world Clement said.	Lisa Graumlich the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal.	False
It can strengthen United States company's competitiveness in the global markets.	Washington CNN President Donald Trump spent an hour Thursday talking about his commitment to economic growth and national stability as he announced the decision to back out of the Paris Climate Accord.	Most businesses would think that working on the climate issues can and has been creating jobs said Perciasepe.	For many the administration's reluctance to deal with the idea of climate change comes down to one thought that economic growth and climate awareness cannot go hand in hand.	Where Obama's 2016 proclamations discussed the impacts of global warming including drought and rising sea levels Trump's focused on energy production fisheries management and tourism with no mention of climate change.	False
The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016.	With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	California should be called the Smoggy State.	Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	Bakersfield Calif. wasin second place for ozone pollution.	False
The scientists looked at how the humble caridean shrimp has evolved and diversified since it first appeared in the Lower Jurassic.	Humans are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of species not seen since the demise of the dinosaurs British scientists warned.	But global warming and rising sea levels threatened to wipe out many species that cannot adapt to change quickly enough in a blink of an eye.	Professor of Evolutionary Paleobiology Matthew Wills at the Milner Centre for Evolution at the University of Bath said We are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of a magnitude unparalleled since the asteroid impact that wiped out the dinosaurs.	Diversity takes millions of years to evolve but can be damaged in the blink of an eye.	False
Under this administration weve ended the war on American energy.	My action today will cut through the destructive permitting and denials Trump said during the signing of the executive orders at the International Union of Operating Engineers International Training and Education Center a union run facility in Crosby Texas.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Trump's developing an addiction to executive orders that rubberstamp these climate killing projects said Brett Hartl government affairs director at the center.	When states say 'no' to the development of natural gas pipelines they force utilities to curb safe and affordable service and refuse access to new customers including new businesses said Karen Harbert president and CEO at the American Gas Association.	False
We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	CNN Republican Florida Gov.	Climate change will be a part of his office's mission.	Since day one my administration has been laser focused on addressing our pressing environmental challenges.	It also created the chief science officer position.	False
The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Just last month a series of deadly earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok.	You can also contact us in the following ways	A 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	Have you been affected by the earthquake?	False
Under Trump the pace of leasing public lands for oil and gas development has surged.	The decision is the first significant check on the climate impact of the Trump administrations energy first agenda that has opened up vast swaths of public land for mining and drilling.	Every acre of our public land sold to the oil and gas industry is another blow to the climate making this ruling a powerful reality check on the Trump administration and a potent tool for reining in climate pollution.	The administration also plans to make large portions of the Atlantic available for oil and gas development and the interior department has been criticized for favoring the energy industry.	Drilling had been stalled on more than 300000 acres of public land in Wyoming after it was ruled the Trump administration violated environmental laws by failing to consider greenhouse gas emissions.	False
They say the president favours development over conservation.	Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?	Scientists say the Amazon has suffered losses at an accelerated rate since Mr Bolsonaro took office in January.	As the largest rainforest in the world the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming.	Deforestation of Brazil's Amazon rainforest increased by 29.5 in 12 months the highest rate since 2008 the country's space agency reports.	False
He told the conference over lunch our government should work for you according to organizers You can debate what Zinke meant by work for you but many heard it as a pledge of allegiance to the industry.	This means conservation preserving culture and facilitating recreation.	And then that evening Zinkes official Twitter account went into damage control mode implying the message was meant for a broader audience rather than just the industries hes supposed to regulate.	President Donald Trumps trade war is already threatening to undo gains for the fossil fuel industry as China readies tariffs on US energy.	We should be in the business of being a partner.	False
who staked out a climate policy based on a bill to force public companies to disclose financial risk from warming or regulations to curb emissions.	In the lead up to the 2018 midterm elections the fossil fuel industry spent 100 million to crush pro climate ballot measures across the West and to prop up candidates who supported increased oil and gas extraction.	The good news is the American people are beginning to stand up and fight back.	The bill included 7 billion in targeted infrastructure and environmental investments in fossil fuel communities and called for union labor protections for workers on federally backed green jobs.	We need millions of people all over this country to stand up and demand fundamental changes in our energy policy in order to protect our kids and our grandchildren and the planet Sanders told HuffPost by phone.	False
Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems.	Sea level rise and warming temperatures threaten cities like Miami.	This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Climate change and fossil fuels have already disturbed the daily lives of Floridians.	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In his statement Monday however Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally.	This includes 440000 fewer manufacturing jobs not what we need believe me this is not what we need including automobile jobs and the further decimation of vital American industries on which countless communities rely.	U.S. net greenhouse gas emissions dropped 13 percent from 2005 2017 even as our economy grew over 19 percent.	Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the worlds largest carbon emitter China is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal fired power plant online every 10 days.	By withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement to double down on a coal fossil fuel energy agenda Trump has engaged in a unilateral disarmament in the economic arms race that is the transition to clean energy said Michael Mann a climate scientist and professor at Penn State University.	False
Watch the interview below via YouTube.	Wallace responded by asking But dont you think the fact that we have these coal power plants belching carbon emissions into the air you dont think that plays a role?	What if in fact the Earth is warming what if it is causing dramatic climate change and that we as humans through carbon emissions are contributing to it?	Once again Pruitt took the question as an opportunity to criticize the Obama administration saying that in the past there has been a lack of commitment to state partnership.	The Fox News Sunday anchor went on to reference a report from the U.N. that says it is 95 percent likely that human activity has caused the majority of the warming that has taken place since the mid 20th century.	False
Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security.	She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelts New Deal Lyndon B. Johnsons Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know how and capability.	The Green New Deal would be paid for the same way we paid for the original New Deal World War II the bank bailouts tax cuts for the rich and decades of war with public money appropriated by Congress Ocasio Cortez said.	WASHINGTON AP Democrats including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York are calling for a Green New Deal intended to transform the U.S. economy to combat climate change and create thousands of jobs in renewable energy.	She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing.	False
We have the ability to prevent even worse sea level rise and and even worse catastrophes that are also caused by the climate crisis Gore said.	Tangier Island gained national prominence after Trump called Eskridge in response to a CNN piece on the town.	Earth to warm 2 degrees Celsius by the end of this century studies say Gore said he was aware of the town's situation and said the town was losing ground to rising seas.	After some delay Trump announced in the Rose Garden in June that he intended to pull the United States out of the climate agreement.	We still have the ability to slow it down.	False
They want the government toprepare an accounting of the nations greenhouse gas emissions and prepare and implement an enforceable national remedial plan for reducing carbon emissions.	Its objections were first raised during the Obama administration.	WASHINGTON The Supreme Court refused the Trump administration's request Friday to block21 young people from putting a warming planet on trial in Eugene Ore. Theaction keeps alive at least for nowanunusual lawsuit begun in 2015 to force a change in federal environmental policyby declaring a climate systemcapable of sustaining human life a civil right.The lawsuit was broughton behalf of children now ages 11 22as well as future generations.	Their alleged injuries stem from the cumulative effects of CO2emissions from every source in the world over decades.	Legal whiz kid or partisan hack?	False
The trains are still coming and new fossil fuel projects are still being proposed were in the midst of a worldwide climate emergency and were fighting back.	Its time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time.	Railroads engage in interstate commerce which means the buck stops with the federal government.	Ultimately Shut Down Fossil Fuels is calling for an end to oil trains oil terminals and all fossil fuels.	Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	False
It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor broadly undermine human health damage infrastructure limit the availability of water alter coastlines and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production.	With continued growth in emissions at historic rates annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states according to the report.	The studies clash with policy under President Donald Trump who has been rolling back Obama era environmental and climate protections to maximize production of domestic fossil fuels including crude oil already the highest in the world above Saudi Arabia and Russia.	Reuters Climate change will cost the U.S. economy hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century damaging everything from human health to infrastructure and agricultural production according to a government report issued on Friday.	Previous research including from U.S. government scientists has also concluded that climate change could have severe economic consequences including damage to infrastructure water supplies and agriculture.	False
The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014 which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals?	RELATED Alexandria Ocasio Cortez Green New Deal Is About Social Justice Being a non binding resolution the Green New Deal doesnt offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated.	Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs newly released Green New Deal resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions.	False
The United States is still reeling from last years megadisasters.	The damages from the hurricanes heat waves wildfires and tornadoes in 2017 cost at least 306 billion.	President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases the Clean Power Plan.	The recent personnel shake up across the federal government doesnt bode well for the fight against climate change either.	And former White House adviser George David Banks who suggested that Trump could rejoin the Paris agreement resigned last month after he failed to get a security clearance due to past marijuana use.	False
President Donald Trump who in 2017 yanked the U.S. out of the Paris Accord on climate changecontinues to doubt the science and says radical action would only hurt the economy.	The shift from 'future problem'to 'now crisis'is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real world catastrophes.	A carbon tax is the most market oriented nonbureaucratic efficient way I can see to kill off coal.	That is rapidly changing how Americans think about it David Doniger with the Natural Resources Defense Council wrote in a recent blog.	Climate change is here and now.	False
According to the ETC website the groups goal is to accelerate change towards low carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius.	In its report ETC insists that investments of up to 500 billion per annum would not pose a major macroeconomic challenge to nations accepting the call to fund the project.	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	ETC claims that the world must fundinvestment in renewables and other low carbon technologies some 6 trillion higher 300 billion per year while the largest required increases of almost 9 trillion 450 billion per year will be in more efficient energy saving equipment and buildings.	The group is made up of energy company executives activists investment bankers Al Gore and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of funds the Daily Caller reports.	False
Steyer then shifted focus to cleaning up the air and water in the black and brown communities where our pollution is concentrated and claimed it would create millions of middle class union jobs.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate crisis America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles California.	Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America.	False
For the White House bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters.	Which means that the White Houses move to repeal the Clean Power Plan is a one two punch to human health and the environment said Georges Benjamin executive director of the American Public Health Association.	According to the Global Burden of Disease project more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution and emissions from coal fired plants are a major risk factor here.	The Clean Power Plan in other words though never implemented was a big win for health.	Pruitt wants to repeal Obamas Clean Power Plan the signature Environmental Protection Agency policy that aims to cut emissions from existing US power plants a big driver of climate change 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.	False
For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing an aggressive climate policy makes business sense.	Were a long standing partner to the energy sector and were determined to support the transition to a more sustainable world BNP Paribas CEO Jean Laurent Bonnaf said in a statement.As an international bank our role is to help drive the energy transition and contribute to the decarbonization of the economy.	In 2015 the company was ordered to pay 8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan Cuba and Iran.	At that point coal was becoming an unprofitable investment and banks faced mounting pressure from environmentalists to stop supporting the dirtiest fuels in the lead up the Paris climate agreement.	Last month JPMorgan Chase became the target of a new campaign urging it to end financing for companies that drill tar sands a particularly dirty source of oil that forms the backbone of Canadas industry.	False
California Gov.	Trumpcampaigned on a promise to withdraw the U.S.from the accord saying it would lead to higher energy prices and hurt domesticbusinesses from being able to compete globally.	The Paris Accord would undermineour economy hamstring ourworkers weaken oursovereignty impose unacceptable legal risk and put us at a permanentdisadvantageto the other countiesof the world.	The internationalagreement which was signed in 2015 and went into effect seven months ago is considered a major part theenvironmental legacy of the Obama administration.	AndWall Street fund managers and large businesses are moving away from fossil fuels due to market conditions further contributing to increased use of cleaner energy sources.	False
This month he sent out a tweet calling for an economic revolution because in his view capitalism is failing us killing us and robbing from our childrens future.	When they are not being greedy or trying to dominate the world they are responsible for polluting the planet.	The Exxon case shows that the agenda of the left wing groups behind Dark Waters is a moving target one always guided by the trial lawyers laser like focus on the deepest pocketbook.	Sandwiched between much of our entertainment are messages that perpetuate liberal themes The military is bloodthirsty radical Muslims must be handled with kid gloves trial lawyers and climate change activists are crusading heroes and above all corporations are evil.	One example is a proposed big budget biographical film about Ronald Reagan starring Dennis Quaid.	False
The weakening of automobile standards which is a win for car manufacturers and a blow to environmentalists also sets up a fight between the Trump administration and the state of California which says it plans to stick with the stricter rules.	Pushing to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord Pruitt pushed the White House to leave the Paris climate deal stood beside the President in the Rose Garden when he announced the decision and after the President spoke offered his own remarks.	Here are some of Pruitt's key changes Like others in the Trump administration Pruitt has repeatedly highlighted uncertainty about the role that humans have played in global warming a view that is at odds with the vast majority of scientific evidence.	Pruitt announced in October his decision to withdraw from the Clean Power Plan the Obama era rule intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from power plants across the country.	The decades old policy was opposed by fossil fuel companies but environmental groups argued that its withdrawal would result in more pollution.	False
I think the best possible path to do that is through a cap and trade system he said.	One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use.	In response to a question from Priya Subberwal a New York University student Mr. ORourke made clear that he prefers cap and trade over a straight tax on carbon.	We should certainly price carbon.	Under such a system the government issues a limited number of allowances or permits to companies and other entities that emit carbon dioxide essentially creating a cap on emissions.	False
He said in the second paragraph 'economic growth enhances environmental protection.'	Jobs matter!'	Trump said 'I am committed to keeping our air and water clean but always remember that economic growth enhances environmental protection.	By comparison last year President Obama's message in 2016 took on an urgent tone and said 'Human activity is disrupting the climate and the challenge of combating climate change is one that will define the contours of our time.'	In 2013 on a chilly day at Trump Tower he tweeted 'Another freezing day in the Spring what is going on with global warming?	False
for failing to properly control methane pollution a greenhouse gas.	His legal team was one of the first in the nation to target banks for sponsoring nontransparent trading platforms called dark pools which allowed high speed trading firms to take advantage of investors.	Three years ago he opened an investigation with the Massachusetts attorney general into whether Exxon Mobil deliberately misled the public and investors about the impact of climate change.	In 2015 Mr. Schneidermans office opened an investigation into the mortgage practices of Caliber Home Loans a fast growing lender but has said nothing about the inquiry since then.	In 2016 Mr. Schneiderman and the Securities and Exchange Commission announced a 154 million settlement with Barclays and Credit Suisse to resolve allegations that the banks had permitted traders to misuse their dark pool platforms.	False
We have an enormous opportunity to make them a part of the climate solution and for both economic and environmental reasons we should take it.	During CNNs marathon town hall on climate change Wednesday candidates vowed to end oil gas and coal leasing on federal land as part of a shared goal to decarbonizing the economy and prevent catastrophic warming.	Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps.	We actually need to undo the damage that this administration has done and then expand the lands that were protecting in our country Castro said.	Castros 10 trillion climate plan also released this week calls for designating new national monuments parks and wildlife refuge and outlines a so called Green Opportunity Corps that would put 15000 young adults to work in areas like public land conservation.	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Sanders andothers have claimed their plans would benefit the economy.	Economists estimate that if we do not take action we will lose 34.5 trillion in economic activity by the end of the century.	Sanders paintedhis Green New Dealas a way to end the greed of the fossil fuel industry.	While some may use attacks on natural gas and oil to energize their political base our industry will remain focused on providing the energy that powers Americas economy and modern lifestyle while also continuing to lower carbon emissions beyond their current generational low.	The American Petroleum Institute a trade association for the oil and gas industry responded to Sanders in a statement to Fox News.	False
surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.	A Green Island moss bank with icebergs.Credit Matt Amesbury Antarctica is a cold white continent at the bottom of the world.	Or so it has been for thousands of years.	The Antarctic Peninsula is among the most rapidly warming areas in the world with temperatures having increased by almost three degrees Celsius over the last 50 years.	Dr. Matt Amesbury also of the University of Exeter said there were two main findings to take from their new study scale and temperature sensitivity Before now studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites weve been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula.	False
Etc.	not believing in science because recent hurricanes have been bad and climate change is causing it and blah blah blah.	Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	Similarly California had a historic drought that recently came to an end.	Who says?	False
'It simply sounds like a transfer of wealth from the United States to other countries.'	It was about U.S. money going to other countries.'	Ross said much of the predicted backlash from other countries that drive global warming concerns would be rooted in economics not science.	'And how can it be an effective deal when it allows China and India two of the major polluters to keep increasing their pollution for another decade or two?'	The declaration says that the Arctic 'is warming at more than twice the rate of the global average resulting in widespread social environmental and economic impacts in the Arctic and worldwide.'	False
Theyre trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used.	We are importing Russian natural gas which is not produced in an environmentally conscious manner.	President Donald Trump is seeking to boost domestic fossil fuels production over the objections of Democrats and environmentalists concerned about pollution and climate change.	They are trying to make international environmental policy Wheeler said of Washington state whose governor Democrat Jay Inslee is running for president on a climate change focused platform.	New York has used the section to delay pipelines that would bring natural gas to New England for example and Washington state has stopped coal export terminals that would open the Asian market for struggling coal companies in Wyoming and other landlocked western states.	False
We only wish the ad had noted how much Carlos Curbelo has taken from Big Oil.	In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money.	The super PAC Climate Hawks Vote which supports candidates with a progressive energy agendahas been running ads against Curbelo that point to his history of receiving donations from fossil fuel companies including Chevron and Exxon Mobil.This cycle hisNo.	The incumbent is Republican Rep. Carlos Curbelo and the party apparatus is the National Republican Congressional Committee whose coffers this cycle contain nearly 7 million in donations from the oil and gas industry.	Debbie Mucarsel Powell is a climate champion and the advocate South Floridians need as they watch sea levels rise see beaches destroyed by red tide and live with the increasing threat of stronger more powerful hurricanes.	False
Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?	Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes?	However expects it to result in more intense tropical cyclones globally with substantially higher rainfall rates by the end of the 21st century.	Blowing from east to west across Africa the winds form clusters of thunderstorms once the waves of air have enough moisture lift and instability.	The interaction between the hot dry air of the Sahara Desert and the cooler more humid air from the Gulf of Guinea below creates high altitude winds known as the African Easterly Jet.	False
To find out Daniel O'Neill an economist at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom and several collaborators came up with 11 indicators that a country has met the needs of its citizens.	Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power medical care to stay healthy enough income to feed their kids education for the children so they can fulfill their potential.	The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage in other words using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it.	And this means the strategy of growing the economy basically trying to create new wealth to boost the well being of its underprivileged citizens is ineffective.	Instead says O'Neill generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet.	False
The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer familythe billionaire megadonors whogave more than 15 million to Trumps 2016 campaign.	The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts.	A retired Princeton physics professor with no expertise in climatology Happer has served as President Donald Trumps deputy assistant for emerging technologies on the National Security Council since September 2018.	While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement.	Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	False
Look whats happening now in the Amazon whats going on?	Nothing.	Tonight while American families worry about making ends meet the Democrats running for president will be working hard to outbid each other on who can raise electricity and gasoline prices the highest and the fastest the alliance said in an emailed statement.	Bernie Sanders painted an apocalyptic future wreaked by the climate crisis and pledged to wage war on the fossil fuel industry.	Dont the Democrats care about fighting American poverty?	False
Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget told CNN that climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese.	Hurricane Irma is of epic proportion perhaps bigger than we have ever seen Trump tweeted as Irma moved closer to Florida.	And on Thursday in Florida before his comments aboard Air Force One about climate change Trump said the people of Florida experienced something the likes of which we can say really say nobody's ever seen before.	False
It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.	Consequently an initial warming leads to more emission leading to more warming and more emission.	Just as bad the permafrost melting would continue after 2100 which would lock us into even more warming.	A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The people who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms droughts wildfires and heat waves.	In May career government economists accused Perdue and his agency of retaliating against them for their reports showing that Trump's tax and farm subsidy policies are hurting the very rural voters he promised to help.	We stand for spreading the word about the science we do especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people.	Rather than embrace science the Trump administration is hurting farmers in order to cling to an anti science political position.	False
John Hirschauer is a senior economics studentat Fairfield University a columnist for the Fairfield Mirror and the host of The Outlet with John Hirschauer radio program.	Each individual has values good and bad and they often remain in tension with one another.	We make decisions every day accordingly.	What makes radical environmentalism and its private jet flying propagators so toxic a cultural beast is how high on its adherents totem pole they are willing to place environmental concerns often over some of the most elemental human needs and desires.	What is the goal of a funeral?	False
Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	TheEnergy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act is notable in that itsthe first bipartisan carbon tax bill introduced in Congress in about 10 years.	More than a dozen federal agencies just warned us that if we dont take dramatic action climate change will knock 10 percent off of our GDP by the end of this century Deutch the bills Democratic co sponsorstated to Bloomberg Environment.	In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices revenue from the tax would be given back out to households.Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one third over a 10 year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050 compared to 2015 emission levels.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
The Natural Resources Defense Council NRDC for example played a pivotal role in crafting the Clean Power Plan which became Obamas signature global warming policy.	The League of Conservation Voters LCV led eight other groups in a legal challengeof Trumps recent executive order to reopen large swaths of Arctic seas to offshore drilling.LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election.	CBD famously sued the Department of Homeland Security DHS to stop the construction of a wall on the U.S. Mexico border.	Theyare living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office namely to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies.	Earthjustice and CBD joined LCVs suit against Trumps EPA.	False
March 14 2017 Gallup poll.	So from that July day in 2008 Jordan waged his own war on the environment Voting to bar greenhouse gasses from Clean Air Act rules voting against enforcing limits on carbon dioxide global warming pollution against tax incentives for renewable electricity and energy conservation against curtailing subsidies for oil and gas company exploration but voting in favor of opening the Outer Continental Shelf to oil drilling.	And in Jordans case that would be Social Security Medicare education health care and the like Programs that benefit folks in his district.	The pledge or vow is the product of Americans for Prosperity the conservative political advocacy group funded by David and Charles Koch.	This is the outfit that went to war with the Obama Administration initiatives to combat global warming.	False
The end of the document contains a QA one of which deals with the plans funding The Federal Reserve can extend credit to power these projects and investments new public banks can be created as in WWII to extend credit and a combination of various taxation tools including taxes on carbon and other emissions and progressive wealth taxes can be employed.	The final Green New Deal willmitigate deeply entrenched racial regional and gender based inequalities in income and wealth including without limitation ensuring that federal and other investment will be equitably distributed to historically impoverished low income deindustrialized or other marginalized communities in such a way that builds wealth and ownership at the community level.	Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	The Green New Deal it says shall provide all members of our society across all regions and all communities the opportunity training and education to be a full and equal participant in the transition including through a job guarantee program to assure a living wage job to every person who wants one.	The deal shall ensure a just transition for all workers low income communities communities of color indigenous communities rural and urban communities and the front line communities most affected by climate change pollution and other environmental harm including by ensuring that local implementation of the transition is led from the community level.	False
Newsomunderstands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow.	Its a challenging issue.	But at what cost is this being done especially when nobody else is doing anything.	In the next few weeksCalifornia Gov.	Its also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry that have jobs communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism.	False
The right wing populist Bolsonaro who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazonhome to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so peoplecame to power in January.	The Amazon is burning at an alarming rate in Brazil with 72843 fires detected so far this year by the countrys space research center INPE.	The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right wing President Jair Bolsonaros environmental policies that dont give much thought to the environment at all.	It came after Inpe published data showing an 88 percent increase in deforestation there in June compared to the same month a year ago.	The Bolsonaro regime has reversed previous governments efforts to enforce environmental regulations and protect what is the largest rainforest in the world.	False
Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	Accompanying every hurricane are numerous stories in mainstream media outlets suggesting disaster could have been averted had American elected officials done more to stop global warming which left wing pundits continue to insist is almost entirely being caused by humans carbon dioxide CO2 emissions.	And from 2006 to 2016 the United States has averaged an annual reduction in its carbon dioxide emissions of 1.2 percent according to an analysis by BP.	And if all that werent enough its absolutely absurd to say Trump is any way responsible for global warming because even if it is true humans are the primary cause of warming carbon dioxide emissions actually dropped in Trumps first two years in office.	However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence.	False
So we will certainly youre right weve got to look at agriculture weve got to look at every cause of the crisis that we face.	With that being known what do you plan on doing to ensure that Americans limit their consumption of animal products?	All I can say is if we believe as I do and you do that climate change is real were going to have to tackle it in every single area including agriculture.	Climate change is the leading cause of every bad thing on the earth is one hell of a You probably already know Britta.	Perpetual presidential candidate Bernie Sanders continues his Gimme tour with more and more promises to steal from the poor to give to the rich.	False
