559	rt	questionable_source	2018-03-21	Like this story?	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale, arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	The oil industry welcomed the lease sale, with Randall Luthi of the trade group National Oceanic Industry Association noting that the sale on Wednesday "may draw more interest from industry than we have seen in recent years."	eople need jobs, the Gulf Coast states need revenue, and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil."	Share it with a friend!		'Next Deepwater Horizon disaster a matter of time': Critics slam record offshore oil lease sale The Trump administration has held the biggest lease sale of oil and gas in US history. Environmentalists fear the auction will massively expand fossil fuel production and could lead to the next Deepwater disaster. President Donald Trump on Wednesday sold more than 77 million acres of federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico for offshore oil drilling, an area twice the size of Florida. The lease sale forms part of the Trump administration's plans to increase domestic energy production by opening up new areas for oil drilling. Oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico became increasingly controversial after the BP Deepwater Horizon disaster in 2010, which killed 11 workers and released millions of barrels of crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico. The catastrophe caused  $17.2 billion-worth of damage to natural resources, according to a study in 2017 commissioned by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Critics of the sale fear the expansion in offshore drilling could devastate marine life and lead to roll-backs in environmental protections. "Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry," said Kristen Monsell, oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity." ore drilling and less regulation will make the next Deepwater Horizon disaster only a matter of time. Whales, dolphins and Gulf seafood are already marinating in oil spills and industry wastewater," she added. The Interior Department said the sell-off is necessary if America is to maintain energy independence. "American energy production can be competitive," said Vincent DeVito, an energy policy advisor at the Interior Department." eople need jobs, the Gulf Coast states need revenue, and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil." he said. The Gulf of Mexico provides the US with around 1.5 million barrels of oil per day, or roughly 17 percent of its national production total, according to the Energy Information Administration. US  crude oil output has grown by more than 20 percent since mid-2016. The oil industry welcomed the lease sale, with Randall Luthi of the trade group National Oceanic Industry Association noting that the sale on Wednesday "may draw more interest from industry than we have seen in recent years." Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale, arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers. The Project on Government Oversight warned in February that the 'uncompetitive' lease system used by the government to auction sites allows energy companies to "secure offshore leases for a pittance." It cautioned that the sale in the Gulf of Mexico means "more publicly owned resources could be turned over to industry at bargain-basement prices." The Center for American Progress, a left-leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement, saying in a statement that "offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources." Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False
115	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-01-08	We're addressing the issue."	Contributing to the overall increase were the growing U.S. economy, a cold start to the year that required additional energy for heating, and the "limited progress made in developing decarbonization strategies," the analysis found."	We have our own plan.	The analysis comes on the heels of two gut-wrenching climate reports, one by the United Nations and another authored by scientists from more than a dozen federal agencies in the U.S., that warn the world is running out of time to stave off catastrophic, and potentially irreversible, climate change.	The Interior Department, one of the main agencies affected by the shutdown.		U.S. Emissions Spike Undercuts Trump Administration Push For Fossil Fuel Use The Trump administration has repeatedly pointed to declines in U.S. carbon emissions to justify its fossil fuel-focused "energy dominance" agenda. But a new analysis has delivered a blow to that defense, concluding that the nation's greenhouse gas emissions rose sharply in 2018. Emissions in the country jumped 3.4 percent last year, the second largest annual increase in more than two decades, according to a preliminary estimate by the economic research company Rhodium Group. The analysis comes on the heels of two gut-wrenching climate reports, one by the United Nations and another authored by scientists from more than a dozen federal agencies in the U.S., that warn the world is running out of time to stave off catastrophic, and potentially irreversible, climate change. The Trump administration continues to dismiss and downplay the crisis. "I don't believe it," President Donald Trump, who has a long history of climate change denial, said of his own administration's report. He added that "we're the cleanest we've ever been." Between 2005 and 2017, CO2 emissions in the U.S. fell by about 14 percent. Administration officials have touted these declines to explain their push to boost fossil fuels, as well as to defend the president's decision last year to withdraw the U.S. from the historic Paris accord on combating climate change." e are moving forward, but we are not moving forward in a detrimental impact to our economy as what the Paris climate accord would have called for," Wheeler said. "We are reducing our CO2 emissions faster than most other developed countries. We have our own plan. We're moving forward. We're addressing the issue." Former Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, who resigned Jan. 2 under a cloud of ethics scandals, told the National Petroleum Council last month that the administration's "regulatory philosophy" is to partner with the fossil fuel sector, which he said was at "the leading edge of technology." The U.S. has "lead the charge" in cutting emissions of CO2 and methane, a potent greenhouse gas, he added." veryone else is up," he said, referring to other countries' overall emissions. "We're going down while we have our record-breaking oil and gas production." But as Rhodium Group's new analysis makes clear, that was not the case in 2018. The emissions uptick ― the largest since the economic bounce back from the recession that ended in mid-2009 ― comes despite a record number of coal-fired power plants going offline, replaced largely by the use of natural gas. Along with an 1.9 percent spike in power sector emissions, increases occurred in the transportation, industry and buildings sectors, according to Rhodium. Contributing to the overall increase were the growing U.S. economy, a cold start to the year that required additional energy for heating, and the "limited progress made in developing decarbonization strategies," the analysis found." ith a new Congress in session, we demand they heed these warnings (about climate change) and step up to act at the scale of the crisis," she said in a statement. The administration has aggressively rolled back environmental and climate regulations, including President Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, a policy limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. At Interior, Zinke overturned an Obama-era moratorium on new coal leases on federal land, scrapped a hydraulic fracturing rule meant to better protect public health and curtailed a rule limiting the amount of methane that can be released from oil and gas operations on federal and Native American lands. Even amid the current partial government shutdown, the administration has prioritized fossil fuels. The Interior Department, one of the main agencies affected by the shutdown. is still issuing permits for oil companies, according to Bloomberg. And the agency is continuing its push to open Alaska's fragile Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling, holding public meetings as part of its ongoing environmental review process, Alaska Public Media reported.	False
40	foxnews	right_bias	2019-08-22	According to the campaign, revenue will be generated via a host of measures, including slapping the fossil fuel industry with fees, litigation and taxes, and generating revenue from the sale of energy.	Among those promises are a $681 billion program for families and small businesses to trade in old vehicles for newer, more energy-efficient motors – a souped-up version of the Obama administration-era "Cash for Clunkers" program.	In a nod to the social justice part of the plan, he says that the deal is an "opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social, racial, and economic justice, including redressing the exclusion of black, brown, Native American and other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal."	But the White House hopeful also promises that the plan will pay for itself over 16 years, saying experts have scored the plan and its economic effects.	Sanders' plan is no different, promising that he will "generate the political will necessary for a wholesale transformation of our society" and proposing $16.3 trillion in public investments.		Sanders releases $16 trillion 'Green New Deal' plan, promises it will 'pay for itself' Democratic 2020 hopeful Sen. Bernie Sanders on Thursday released his plan for a Green New Deal – promising that the multitrillion-dollar plan to radically overhaul the economy and combat climate change will "pay for itself" over the next 15 years." s president, Bernie Sanders will launch the decade of the Green New Deal, a ten-year, nationwide mobilization centered around justice and equity during which climate change will be factored into virtually every area of policy, from immigration to trade to foreign policy and beyond," his campaign said in a press release. SANDERS CALLS FOR 'REGISTRY OF DISREPUTABLE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS,' CUTTING PRISON POPULATION IN HALFThe Vermont senator has long been an advocate for the Green New Deal, but only this year has it become a central policy for many of those seeking the Democratic nomination for president. This year, it was given a big push in Congress when Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., and Sen. Ed Markey, D-Mass., introduced a formal resolution on it – which stalled in the Senate but drew support from a number of 2020 hopefuls. All versions of such plans have gone beyond direct energy-related policies, instead seeking to overhaul the economy and society at large. Sanders' plan is no different, promising that he will "generate the political will necessary for a wholesale transformation of our society" and proposing $16.3 trillion in public investments. In addition to promises that include reaching 100 percent renewable energy by 2030 and decarbonization by 2050 and ending unemployment by creating 20 million "good paying" jobs tied to clean energy, Sanders claims he will save families money with a host of policies -- including launching universal high-speed Internet, weatherizing homes, building new public transportation and rebuilding America's infrastructure. Among those promises are a $681 billion program for families and small businesses to trade in old vehicles for newer, more energy-efficient motors – a souped-up version of the Obama administration-era "Cash for Clunkers" program. He also promises "justice for frontline communities" via a $40 billion "Climate Justice Resiliency Fund" as well as an extra $200 billion to the Green Climate Fund. The plan also promises support for the "climate justice movement" to take on the fossil fuel industry and other polluters and "lead the globe in solving the climate crisis." In a nod to the social justice part of the plan, he says that the deal is an "opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social, racial, and economic justice, including redressing the exclusion of black, brown, Native American and other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal." But the White House hopeful also promises that the plan will pay for itself over 16 years, saying experts have scored the plan and its economic effects. According to the campaign, revenue will be generated via a host of measures, including slapping the fossil fuel industry with fees, litigation and taxes, and generating revenue from the sale of energy. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPFurther sources of revenue or savings include tax revenue from the proposed 20 million jobs, higher taxes on the wealthy, lower military spending, and a reduced need for welfare spending "due to the creation of millions of good-paying, unionized jobs." Any such plan is unlikely to get any Republican support -- and would almost certainly rely entirely on Democrats having strong majorities in both the House and Senate should Sanders win the nomination and the presidency.	False
813	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-07-18	This is for you, and it's real."	But other climate activists declared themselves pleased with the outcome, pointing out that it showed that action to reduce emissions is bipartisan and popular."	California's pioneering attitude to climate change action was underlined by separate court action launched on Monday, aimed at holding fossil fuel companies accountable for global warming.	"Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences, came together and took courageous action.	"This isn't for me, I'm going to be dead.		California lawmakers extend program to cut emissions in bipartisan vote California legislators have voted to extend a centerpiece program to cut greenhouse gas emissions, burnishing the state's reputation as a bulwark against Donald Trump's demolition of climate change measures. In a rare show of bipartisan agreement on climate change, eight Republicans joined with Democrats in California's two legislative houses to extend the cap-and-trade emissions system a further 10 years until 2030. The emissions-lowering scheme, the second-largest of its kind in the world, aims to help the state reach its target of cutting planet-warming gases 40% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels." onight, California stood tall and once again, boldly confronted the existential threat of our time," said Jerry Brown, California's governor. "Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences, came together and took courageous action. That's what good government looks like." The cap-and-trade program, established in 2006 under then governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, sets a limit on emissions and requires polluters to either reduce their output or purchase permits from those who have. As the limit steadily becomes stricter, it nudges businesses to take the more financially attractive option of cutting their pollution. California, the sixth-largest economy in the world, is in stark opposition to Trump's administration. The president has said he will withdraw the US from the Paris climate agreement and has set about dismantling federal policies that lower emissions. Brown has positioned himself as a countervailing force to Trump, visiting China to talk to its leaders about climate change and promising to build and launch weather-monitoring satellites should federal budget cuts endanger programs handled by Nasa and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOOA)."  lot of you people are going to be alive, and you're going to be alive in a horrible situation," Brown told Californian lawmakers at a committee hearing shortly before the vote. "This isn't for me, I'm going to be dead. This is for you, and it's real." Many Californian Republicans remain opposed to the cap-and-trade system, warning it will pose a "crushing" blow to small businesses. But the bill ended up gaining an unusual level of Republican support, with the extension also supported by key conservative constituencies, including the California Chamber of Commerce and associations representing manufacturers and agriculture interests. Concessions to get some Republican support, such as the limiting of separate regulations on refineries, risked alienating more liberal Democrats. Some environmental groups, including the Sierra Club, attacked the bill for allowing polluters to continue emitting greenhouse gases if they offset them with green projects, including those outside California. But other climate activists declared themselves pleased with the outcome, pointing out that it showed that action to reduce emissions is bipartisan and popular." alifornia is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health, economy and future," said Fred Krupp, president of the Environmental Defense Fund. California's pioneering attitude to climate change action was underlined by separate court action launched on Monday, aimed at holding fossil fuel companies accountable for global warming. Marin and San Mateo counties, along with the City of Imperial Beach, filed a lawsuit in the California superior court to complain that 37 oil, gas and coal companies knew burning their products would increase carbon pollution and cause sea levels rise." efendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earth's climate and sea levels," the complaint states. The municipalities are claiming damages from the fossil fuel firms, echoing a strategy used against the tobacco industry in the 1990s that resulted in multibillion dollar payouts. The companies targeted in the lawsuit include Shell, Exxon Mobile, Chevron and BP. According to the municipalities, these businesses have caused around 20% of all industrial carbon dioxide and methane pollution since the 1960s.	False
733	Vox	left_bias	2017-06-01	The Associated Press's Jill Colvin and Julie Pace, though, report that "Trump's decision may not be entirely clear-cut" and that aides continued to deliberate on "caveats in the language."	For years now it's been clear that blocking environmental regulations and obstructing action on climate change are top Republican Party priorities.	The major Republican presidential candidates harshly criticized the Paris deal in particular, and Trump promised to withdraw from it during the campaign.	A live stream of the announcement is embedded above.	The actual Paris deal — agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 — is aspirational rather than binding, calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction.		Video: President Trump pulls US out of Paris climate deal President Donald Trump announced his decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord at 3 pm Eastern in the White House Rose Garden. A live stream of the announcement is embedded above. Multiple reports indicate that Trump is likely to announce a withdrawal from the agreement — though many of these reports have expressed at least some uncertainty, including about precisely what language Trump would use. Jonathan Swan of Axios reported that, per "two sources with direct knowledge of the decision," Trump has decided to pull out of the agreement. The Daily Beast's Lachlan Markay reports that the White House is telling congressional staff that Trump will pull out. The Associated Press's Jill Colvin and Julie Pace, though, report that "Trump's decision may not be entirely clear-cut" and that aides continued to deliberate on "caveats in the language." The actual Paris deal — agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 — is aspirational rather than binding, calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction. Still, the withdrawal of the US would send an unmistakable signal to the rest of the world that the country with the second-highest carbon emissions is no longer interested in even pretending to care about reducing them. For years now it's been clear that blocking environmental regulations and obstructing action on climate change are top Republican Party priorities. The GOP's leading politicians and media outlets have tended to praise fossil fuel companies and ignore or cast doubt on climate science. The major Republican presidential candidates harshly criticized the Paris deal in particular, and Trump promised to withdraw from it during the campaign. Still, withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for America's role as a global leader. So the question of whether the US should actually pull out of the agreement has reportedly been the subject of intense debate within the Trump administration. According to Politico's Andrew Restuccia and Josh Dawsey, White House chief strategist Steve Bannon and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt have been the leading voices urging Trump to withdraw, while Ivanka Trump and the so-called "New York" or "globalist" White House camp have been advocating for staying in. Silicon Valley business leaders like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk have also been arguing that the US should stick to the agreement.	False
812	BBC	left_center_bias	2017-10-30	What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency."	It may be a climate change feedback.	Other experts in the field of atmospheric research agreed that the WMO findings were a cause for concern."	It is very worrying."	The study notes that since 1990 there has been a 40% increase in total radiative forcing, that's the warming effect on our climate of all greenhouse gases."		Record surge in atmospheric CO2 seen in 2016 Concentrations of CO2 in the Earth's atmosphere surged to a record high in 2016, according to the World Meteorological Organization (WMO). Last year's increase was 50% higher than the average of the past 10 years. Researchers say a combination of human activities and the El Niño weather phenomenon drove CO2 to a level not seen in 800,000 years. This year's greenhouse gas bulletin produced by the WMO, is based on measurements taken in 51 countries. Research stations dotted around the globe measure concentrations of warming gases including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide. The figures published by the WMO are what's left in the atmosphere after significant amounts are absorbed by the Earth's "sinks", which include the oceans and the biosphere.2016 saw average concentrations of CO2 hit 403.3 parts per million, up from 400ppm in 2015." It is the largest increase we have ever seen in the 30 years we have had this network," Dr Oksana Tarasova, chief of WMO's global atmosphere watch programme, told BBC News." The largest increase was in the previous El Niño, in 1997-1998 and it was 2.7ppm and now it is 3.3ppm, it is also 50% higher than the average of the last ten years." El Niño impacts the amount of carbon in the atmosphere by causing droughts that limit the uptake of CO2 by plants and trees. Emissions from human sources have slowed down in the last couple of years according to research, but according to Dr Tarasova, it is the cumulative total in the atmosphere that really matters as CO2 stays aloft and active for centuries. Over the past 70 years, says the report, the increase in CO2 in the atmosphere is nearly 100 times larger than it was at the end of the last ice age. Rapidly increasing atmospheric levels of CO2 and other gases have the potential, according to the study to "initiate unpredictable changes in the climate system... leading to severe ecological and economic disruptions." The study notes that since 1990 there has been a 40% increase in total radiative forcing, that's the warming effect on our climate of all greenhouse gases." Geological-wise, it is like an injection of a huge amount of heat," said Dr Tarasova." The changes will not take ten thousand years like they used to take before, they will happen fast - we don't have the knowledge of the system in this state, that is a bit worrisome!"According to experts, the last time the Earth experienced a comparable concentration of CO2 was three to five million years ago, in the mid-Pliocene era. The climate then was 2-3C warmer, and sea levels were 10-20m higher due to the melting of Greenland and the West Antarctic ice sheets. Other experts in the field of atmospheric research agreed that the WMO findings were a cause for concern." The 3ppm CO2 growth rate in 2015 and 2016 is extreme - double the growth rate in the 1990-2000 decade," Prof Euan Nisbet from Royal Holloway University of London told BBC News." It is urgent that we follow the Paris agreement and switch rapidly away from fossil fuels: there are signs this is beginning to happen, but so far the air is not yet recording the change." Another concern in the report is the continuing, mysterious rise of methane levels in the atmosphere, which were also larger than the average over the past ten years. Prof Nisbet says there is a fear of a vicious cycle, where methane drives up temperatures which in turn releases more methane from natural sources." The rapid increase in methane since 2007, especially in 2014, 2015, and 2016, is different. This was not expected in the Paris agreement. Methane growth is strongest in the tropics and sub-tropics. The carbon isotopes in the methane show that growth is not being driven by fossil fuels. We do not understand why methane is rising. It may be a climate change feedback. It is very worrying." The implications of these new atmospheric measurements for the targets agreed under the Paris climate pact, are quite negative, say observers." The numbers don't lie. We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed," said Erik Solheim, head of UN Environment." We have many of the solutions already to address this challenge. What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency." The report has been issued just a week ahead of the next instalment of UN climate talks, in Bonn. Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal, negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement. Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook	False
174	cnbc	left_center_bias	2019-01-02	"We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life."	Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement, expanding drilling on federal lands, and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks.	The Trump administration has targeted dozens of rules.	Within the first few months of the year, incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them.	Over the next two years, those actions will face intense scrutiny on Capitol Hill.		Trump's war on energy and environmental regulation is about to face the 'Spanish Inquisition' President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy, climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office. Over the next two years, those actions will face intense scrutiny on Capitol Hill. On Thursday, Democrats will take control of the House of Representatives and the committees that conduct government oversight. Within the first few months of the year, incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them. The Trump administration has targeted dozens of rules. Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement, expanding drilling on federal lands, and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks. Rep. Raul Grijalva, the Arizona Democrat tipped to chair the House Natural Resources Committee, says Americans can expect the committee to probe the financial costs and public health risks associated with Interior Department policies under Trump. Those include rolling back methane emissions rules from oil and gas operations and making virtually all federally administered offshore waters available to drillers." The Trump administration has spent two years giving away the store to fossil fuel companies, and Republicans in Congress cheered every step of the way," says Grijalva. "We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life."	False
240	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-10-02	Being different is not an illness and the current, best available science is not opinions - it's facts.	You say you "hear" us and that you understand the urgency.	The tone of Greta's images have changed significantly since she addressed the United Nations Climate Summit on September 23rd, where she came close to tears in a emotional speech to international delegates.	The world is waking up.	People are suffering.	'Last week, Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change, saying: 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed, the haters are as active as ever - going after me, my looks, my clothes, my behaviour and my differences. <sep> A photo of Greta scowling when she spotted Donald Trump went viral. <sep> 	'You look happier since leaving the US!' Greta Thunberg reassures fans with smiling snap from Quebec Fans of Greta Thunberg have expressed relief after the 16-year-old posted a string of smiling photographs on Instagram. The environmental activist's recent images, taken while touring Canada's east coast in Montreal and Quebec, are in sharp contrast to images of the 16-year-old speaking in an emotionally charged appearance last month at the Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York. A photo of Greta scowling when she spotted Donald Trump went viral. The teenage campaigner, who has 7.2million followers on Instagram, looks decidedly happier since she crossed the border from the US, something which her followers haven't failed to notice. Writing on Instagram, Greta said: 'So happy to say that the following weeks I'll travel slowly through the North American continent, moving southwest and then eventually through South America towards Santiago. I will stop on the way and visit as many places as I can, and of course protest every Friday no matter where I am.'Yesterday the teenager posted an image of herself at the Marine Mammal Interpretation Centre in Tadoussac, Québec, after spending a morning watching whales. The tone of Greta's images have changed significantly since she addressed the United Nations Climate Summit on September 23rd, where she came close to tears in a emotional speech to international delegates. She told them: 'I shouldn't be up here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to us for hope. How dare you. You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words,'During the same appearance, Greta was seen at the UN headquarters with an enraged expression on her face as US President Donald Trump upstaged her entrance by walking in flanked by news reporters, an image that promptly went viral. Among the comments posted by the environmentalist's followers, many remarked how much happier the teenager had looked in recent days. On Instagram, Jesuissuzette wrote: 'Greta, you look so much happier now that you're out of America. Enjoy your travels. And thank you for your intrepid Climate Crisis campaign.'Last week, Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change, saying: 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed, the haters are as active as ever - going after me, my looks, my clothes, my behaviour and my differences. They come up with every thinkable lie and conspiracy theory. It seems they will cross every possible line to avert the focus, since they are so desperate not to talk about the climate and ecological crisis. Being different is not an illness and the current, best available science is not opinions - it's facts.'Greta, who is taking a sabbatical year from school, arrived in North America in August, taking a two-week crossing on carbon neutral yacht Malizia II to address the United Nations. Greta Thunberg's fiery speech at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York   This is all wrong. I shouldn't be standing here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to me for hope? How dare you! You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words. And yet I'm one of the lucky ones. People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction. And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth. How dare you! For more than 30 years the science has been crystal clear. How dare you continue to look away, and come here saying that you are doing enough, when the politics and solutions needed are still nowhere in sight. You say you "hear" us and that you understand the urgency. But no matter how sad and angry I am, I don't want to believe that. Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act, then you would be evil. And I refuse to believe that. The popular idea of cutting our emissions in half in 10 years only gives us a 50% chance of staying below 1.5C degrees, and the risk of setting off irreversible chain reactions beyond human control. Maybe 50% is acceptable to you. But those numbers don't include tipping points, most feedback loops, additional warming hidden by toxic air pollution or the aspects of justice and equity. They also rely on my and my children's generation sucking hundreds of billions of tonnes of your CO2 out of the air with technologies that barely exist. So a 50% risk is simply not acceptable to us – we who have to live with the consequences. To have a 67% chance of staying below a 1.5C global temperature rise – the best odds given by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – the world had 420 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide left to emit back on 1 January 2018. Today that figure is already down to less than 350 gigatonnes. How dare you pretend that this can be solved with business-as-usual and some technical solutions. With today's emissions levels, that remaining CO2 budget will be entirely gone in less than eight and a half years. There will not be any solutions or plans presented in line with these figures today. Because these numbers are too uncomfortable. And you are still not mature enough to tell it like it is. You are failing us. But the young people are starting to understand your betrayal. The eyes of all future generations are upon you. And if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this. Right here, right now is where we draw the line. The world is waking up. And change is coming, whether you like it or not.	True
43	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-03-12	org.	Republicans, on the other hand, want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism.	"There's a resolution that has a dream, but there's no bill, there's no contents at all."	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios' Amy Harder during the event.		Manchin, Murkowski United In Opposition To The Green New Deal The top lawmakers on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources were unified in their opposition to the Green New Deal and unreadiness to back taxes on carbon dioxide emissions." here's no such thing as a new green deal," West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin said during a Monday night panel at an international energy conference in Houston. "There's a resolution that has a dream, but there's no bill, there's no contents at all." Manchin, a Democrat, appeared alongside Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski, a Republican, at the event, hosted by the consulting firm IHS Markit. Murkowski chairs the Senate energy committee and Manchin is the ranking Democrat. Manchin favors using fossil fuels, like coal, into the future, but wants to fund technology to offset carbon dioxide emissions or sequester them underground. Murkowski said the Green New Deal was "distracting" from bipartisan efforts to fight global warming." W]e have to work within the systems we have and make sure we are not destroying our economy at the same time we're moving to a lower-carbon economy," Murkowski said. As it stands now, the Green New Deal is a non-binding resolution with a series of broad goals for fighting global warming, including "net-zero" greenhouse gas emissions, retrofitting every building, expanding high-speed rail, universal health care and job guarantees. Many Democrats, including 2020 presidential hopefuls, back the Green New Deal, which was introduced by Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Democratic Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey in early February. (RELATED: John Kasich Praises The Green New Deal)However, Senate Democrats are trying to avoid having to vote on the Green New Deal resolution. Republicans, on the other hand, want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism. Manchin and Murkowski also said they " are not ready to support a carbon tax," despite support from some large oil and gas companies, The Washington Examiner's Joshua Siegel tweeted. Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios' Amy Harder during the event. Most Republicans oppose a carbon tax, though a handful have joined oil and gas majors and Democrats to push carbon tax proposals. The most recent high-profile carbon tax effort was led by former Florida GOP Rep. Carlos Curbelo, who introduced a bill to use emissions taxes to fund the federal Highway Trust Fund. However, Curbelo's policy went nowhere in the House and he lost his re-election bid in 2018. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
520	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2018-05-02	This is a fact.	The lawsuit was filed in the U.S.	Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.	The world is not flat, pollution is not free, and the health and safety of our children is not for sale," said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra, standing alongside the governor.	Pruitt, who has sought to block or delay an array of environmental regulations, has argued that assumptions about gas prices and vehicle technology used by the Obama administration to set the standards were too optimistic.		California, 16 other states sue EPA over auto emissions rollbacks California and 16 other states sued the Trump administration Tuesday over its plan to scrap Obama-era auto-emissions standards that would require vehicles to get significantly higher gas mileage by 2025. At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions. Under those rules, vehicles would have to get 36 miles of real-world driving per gallon, about 10 miles over the existing standard." Pollutants coming out of vehicles, out of the tailpipe, does permanent lung damage to children living near well-traveled roads and freeways. This is a fact. The only way we're going to overcome that is by reducing emissions," Gov. Jerry Brown said in announcing the lawsuit along with other top California Democrats. The rules were set six years ago when California and the Obama administration agreed to a single nationwide fuel economy standard. Pruitt, who has sought to block or delay an array of environmental regulations, has argued that assumptions about gas prices and vehicle technology used by the Obama administration to set the standards were too optimistic. And he said the standards would hurt automakers and consumers who can't afford or don't want to buy more fuel-efficient vehicles. Automakers have likewise argued that the Obama-era rules would cost the industry billions of dollars and raise vehicle prices because of the cost of developing the necessary technology. EPA representatives did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment on the lawsuit. California officials say the standards are achievable and the EPA's effort to repeal them is not based on any new research. They argue the plan violates the federal Clean Air Act and didn't follow the agency's own regulations. California has a unique waiver that allows it to set its own tailpipe emissions standards for vehicles, which it has used to combat smog and, more recently, global warming. Thirteen other states and the District of Columbia have adopted the California standards as their own. California has now sued the Trump administration more than 30 times on topics including immigration and health care policy." The world is not flat, pollution is not free, and the health and safety of our children is not for sale," said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra, standing alongside the governor. Brown, who has made fighting climate change a core of his policy and political platform, said the state's battles with Washington over climate are the most essential." If we follow the Pruitt-Trump path, we follow our way off the cliff to disaster," he said. The lawsuit was filed in the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Joining California were Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Virginia and the District of Columbia. All have Democratic attorneys general.	False
640	Fox News	right_bias	2017-06-02	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Bill Ford, chairman of the Ford Motor Co., also weighed in, saying: "We believe climate change is real, and remain deeply committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our vehicles and our facilities."	Canete also predicted that the EU would seek new alliances from the world's largest economies to the most vulnerable island states, as well as U.S. businesses and individuals supportive of the accord.U.N.	Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement "a major disappointment" and said it was "crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues," according to his spokesman.	Spokesman Dmitry Peskov added that its implementation will not be as effective "without the key signatories."		Paris agreement on climate change: World reaction to US pullout World leaders reacted with dismay Thursday to President Trump's announcement that he was pulling out of the Paris climate accord, while three prominent European heads of state rejected his suggestion that the deal could be renegotiated. French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and  and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni said in a joint statement that they regretted the United States' decision to withdraw from the accord, but affirmed "our strongest commitment" to implement its measures and encouraged "all our partners to speed up their action to combat climate change." While Trump said the United States would be willing to rejoin the accord if it could obtain more favorable terms, the three European leaders said the agreement cannot be renegotiated, "since it is a vital instrument for our planet, societies and economics." Macron repeated that belief in an English-language speech from the Elysee presidential palace, unprecedented from a French president in an address at home. He said, "I do respect this decision but I do think it is an actual mistake both for the U.S. and for our planet." Wherever we live, whoever we are, we all share the same responsibility: make our planet great again," Macron added. The European Union's top climate change official, Miguel Arias Canente, said in a statement that Trump's decision to leave the Paris accord made it "a sad day for the global community," adding that the bloc "deeply regrets the unilateral decision." Canete also predicted that the EU would seek new alliances from the world's largest economies to the most vulnerable island states, as well as U.S. businesses and individuals supportive of the accord.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement "a major disappointment" and said it was "crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues," according to his spokesman. Norway's largest pension fund with 53 billion euro ($59.5 billion) in assets under its management said it would continue to invest in renewable energy despite the American president's decision, saying in a statement that "Donald Trump is jumping off a train that has already left the station." Chief executive Odd Arild Grefstad cited the growth of renewable energy in U.S. states such as Texas, New York and California as signs that "the world has started the transition from fossil to a renewable economy." In Mexico, former President Vicente Fox criticized Trump's move, saying on Twitter: "He's declaring war on the planet itself." Fox, who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign, said the U.S. leader's decision "condemns this generation and those to come" and would leave "a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness." Bill Ford, chairman of the Ford Motor Co., also weighed in, saying: "We believe climate change is real, and remain deeply committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our vehicles and our facilities." Before Trump announced his decision Thursday afternoon, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang told reporters during a visit to Berlin that fighting global warming was a "global consensus" and an "international responsibility." Without mentioning the U.S. specifically, Li said that "China in recent years has stayed true to its commitment" and pointed out that his was one of the first countries to ratify the 2015 Paris Agreement. While traveling abroad last week, Trump was repeatedly pressed to stay in the deal by European leaders and Pope Francis. Withdrawing would leave the United States as one of just three countries outside the agreement. The other two are Syria and Nicaragua. Russia joined the chorus speaking out for the climate accord. Speaking to reporters on Thursday before Trump's decision was announced, a spokesman for President Vladimir Putin said Russia "thinks highly" of the accords and sees no alternative to it. Spokesman Dmitry Peskov added that its implementation will not be as effective "without the key signatories." Scientists say Earth is likely to reach more dangerous levels of warming sooner if the U.S. retreats from its pledge because America contributes so much to rising temperatures. Calculations suggest withdrawal could release up to 3 billion additional tons of carbon dioxide a year -- enough to melt ice sheets faster, raise seas higher and trigger more extreme weather. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
858	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-26	Ms. Lagarde said she had always admired Britain's "openness to other nationalities and cultures" and added it was "hard to believe attitudes had changed in such a short space of time."	If the human race wants a future that "looks like utopia and not dystopia," it needs to address such concerns, Lagarde said, predicting that in 50 years' time, oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence.	Speaking directly to the question of global warming, Lagarde said that "we will be toasted, roasted and grilled" if humanity fails to make "critical decisions" regarding carbon emissions.	As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of "carbon footprints" and preaching "renewable energy," they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	Most signatories, Solomon notes in an essay in last Friday's Financial Post, "are ignoring, if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments, undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios."		IMF Chief: We Will Be 'Toasted, Roasted and Grilled' by Global Warming If we don't address the issues of climate change and inequality, Ms. Lagarde said Tuesday before a major economic conference in Riyadh, "we will be moving to a dark future." Speaking directly to the question of global warming, Lagarde said that "we will be toasted, roasted and grilled" if humanity fails to make "critical decisions" regarding carbon emissions. If the human race wants a future that "looks like utopia and not dystopia," it needs to address such concerns, Lagarde said, predicting that in 50 years' time, oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence. Speaking before a major petroleum-producing nation, Lagarde hastened to add that these necessary measures are "well understood" in Saudi Arabia. Ms. Lagarde is no stranger to exaggerated predictions, having proposed in 2016 that a Brexit victory would lead to 500,000 job losses, while suggesting that Brexit voters are narrow-minded and calling for a "united Europe." Ms. Lagarde said she had always admired Britain's "openness to other nationalities and cultures" and added it was "hard to believe attitudes had changed in such a short space of time." In June, President Donald Trump announced the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord, arguing that it was a deeply flawed document that put American workers at an economic disadvantage. This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists, with former UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon accusing Trump of "standing on the wrong side of history." Recent reports, however, suggest that Trump's move has drawn numerous countries in his wake, with a number of other nations quietly withdrawing from the Paris energy goals. According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe, a Toronto-based environmental organization, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Most signatories, Solomon notes in an essay in last Friday's Financial Post, "are ignoring, if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments, undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios." Moreover, a devastating new study from the prestigious UK-based Lancet journal has revealed that pollution-related diseases—rather than "climate change"—were responsible for an estimated 9 million premature deaths in 2015, or some 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence combined. Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today, the study found, but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide: "three times more deaths than from AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence." So while there has not yet been a single documented case of a person being killed by carbon dioxide related "global warming," real pollution of air, water and land is killing an average of 25,000 people every day across the globe. As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of "carbon footprints" and preaching "renewable energy," they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world. Whereas the Paris Climate Accord prates about greenhouse gas emissions, it never once mentions the word "pollution" in the entire 27-page document. Yet not only is pollution control not getting better, in many parts of the world, "pollution is getting worse," the Lancet study found.	True
630	NewsBusters	right_bias	2017-09-13	Thus, our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line (Republicans supporting Trump, Democrats criticizing him), and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story, such as statements from experts presented as non-partisan, voters, or opinionated statements from the networks' own reporters.	Methodology: Our measure of spin was designed to isolate the networks' own slant, not the back-and-forth of partisan politics.	The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism.	Instead, it covers specifically the coverage of President Trump's environmental agenda on ABC World News Tonight, CBS Evening News and NBC Nightly News.	Climate change, he [Bast] says, is a naturally occurring cyclical phenomenon caused mostly by the sun, not an approaching disaster accelerated by carbon dioxide emissions caused by humans."		86 Percent Negative: Media Scold Trump on Climate, Cite 'World of Opposition' The twin disasters of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showcased once again the media's reflex to use such tragedies to push for liberal climate change policies.  In their pursuit of this agenda, the broadcast networks' have heavily criticized the Trump administration's policies on the environment. From January 20 through August 31, MRC analysts tallied 75 stories discussing the President and climate change, totaling 73 minutes, 43 seconds of network airtime.  The commentary in these stories was as one-sided as the rest of Trump's coverage has been, with 88 percent of evaluative statements criticizing the President, vs. a mere 12 percent that praised him. Methodology: Our measure of spin was designed to isolate the networks' own slant, not the back-and-forth of partisan politics. Thus, our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line (Republicans supporting Trump, Democrats criticizing him), and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story, such as statements from experts presented as non-partisan, voters, or opinionated statements from the networks' own reporters. Using these criteria, MRC analysts tallied 121 evaluative statements about the Trump administration's approach to the environment from January 20 to August 31, 2017, of which 106 (88%) were negative vs. a mere 15 (12%) which were positive. This study does not look at all climate change-related stories during this time frame. Instead, it covers specifically the coverage of President Trump's environmental agenda on ABC World News Tonight, CBS Evening News and NBC Nightly News. The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism. NBC Nightly News correspondent Matt Bradley's July 30 quip that "President Donald Trump shifts American climate commitments into reverse" was typical of the media attitude towards the president's environmental policies. On June 2, Nightly News correspondent Kristen Welker promoted an anti-Trump protest over this decision, hyping "the backlash is only heating up." The same night, CBS Evening News's anchor Anthony Mason spoke of the "world of opposition to withdraw from the Paris climate accord." Correspondent Chip Reid echoed by referencing "worldwide condemnation." NBC Nightly News, anchor Savannah Guthrie on June 1 criticized the move to withdraw from the climate treaty: "detractors say it is a stunning abandonment of the U.S.'s leadership in the world, and a grave threat to the planet itself." To their credit, CBS stood alone in interviewing a conservative to hear the other side of the climate change debate. On April 22, CBS Evening News, correspondent Dean Reynolds noted that Joe Bast, CEO of The Heartland Institute, "looks with approval on Mr. Trump's decision to roll back regulations limiting greenhouse gases, and to his appointments of fellow skeptics in the administration. Climate change, he [Bast] says, is a naturally occurring cyclical phenomenon caused mostly by the sun, not an approaching disaster accelerated by carbon dioxide emissions caused by humans." However, before stating this position, Reynolds noted that "most climate scientists, the United Nations, as well as NASA, dismiss these arguments as propaganda for fossil fuels. On March 28 NBC Nightly News profiled "celebrations in coal country" over Trump's environmental proposals, mentioning a barber shop in West Virginia where "they cheered the move, hoping it will bring back jobs." Afterwards, correspondent Kristen Welker noted that "federal data shows mines have been losing jobs for decades under both parties. Right now, there are less than seventy-five thousand coal jobs, compared to more than six hundred and fifty thousand in renewable energy, which can be less expensive to produce."	False
10	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-07-25	Jennifer Marlon, a research scientist at the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication, said the divergence in the way American perceive the weather is being driven by factors including the news they consume and their social circles.	Scientists and researchers at the University of Michigan, the University of Exeter and others came to a similar conclusion in a 2018 study which found that political bias and partisan news reporting can affect whether people indicate experiencing certain extreme weather events.	The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3,281 people.	Last year, the Yale program - which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change - set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States.	For more conservative Americans, the link between weather and climate change is "not a typical conversation," Marlon said.	Their different takes underscore a broader truth about the way Americans perceive extreme weather: Democrats are far more likely to believe droughts, floods, wildfires, hurricanes and tropical storms have become more frequent or intense where they live in the last decade, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll. <sep> 	POLL: Dems, Republicans can't even agree on weather! NEW YORK (Reuters) - Only 200 miles separate Michael Tilden and Miranda Garcia in rain-soaked Iowa. But they are worlds apart when it comes to their opinion of the weather. Garcia, a 38-year-old former journalist and Democrat from Des Moines, thinks flooding has been getting worse in the state, which just came out of its wettest 12-months on record. Tilden, a 44-year-old math teacher and Republican from Sioux City, thinks otherwise: "I've noticed essentially the same weather pattern every single year," he said. Their different takes underscore a broader truth about the way Americans perceive extreme weather: Democrats are far more likely to believe droughts, floods, wildfires, hurricanes and tropical storms have become more frequent or intense where they live in the last decade, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll. The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming - including disputes over its existence - have grown deep roots, distorting the way Americans view the world around them. The divide will play into the 2020 election as Democratic hopefuls seek to sell aggressive proposals to reduce or even end fossil fuel consumption by drawing links between climate change and recent floods, storms and wildfires. Nearly two-thirds of Democrats believe severe thunderstorms and floods have become more frequent, compared to 42% and 50% of Republicans, respectively, according to the poll. About half of Democrats, meanwhile, think droughts, hurricanes and tropical storms are more common in their region, versus less than a third of Republicans, according to the poll. Similarly, nearly seven in 10 Democrats said in the poll that severe weather events such as thunderstorms have become more intense, compared to 4 of 10 Republicans. And nearly half of Republicans said there has been no change in the intensity of severe weather over the past decade, versus a fifth of Democrats. The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3,281 people. It has a credibility interval, a measure of precision, of 2 percentage points up or down.U.S. government researchers have concluded that tropical cyclone activity, rainfall, and the frequency of intense single-day storms have been on the rise, according to data compiled by the Environmental Protection Agency. For example, six of the 10 most active years for tropical cyclones in the Atlantic basin since 1950 have occurred since the mid-1990s, and nine of the top 10 years for extreme one-day precipitation events nationwide have occurred since 1990, according to the data." e do expect to see more intense storms," said David Easterling, a spokesman for the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration's National Centers for Environmental Information. An overwhelming majority of scientists believe human consumption of fossil fuels is driving sweeping changes in the global climate by ramping up the concentration of heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere. But it is impossible to draw a direct link between the changes in U.S. weather in the recent past to the larger trend of warming. President Donald Trump has cast doubt on the science of climate change, saying he believes that research into its severity, causes and effects is not yet settled. Two years ago he announced the United States would withdraw from a global pact to reduce carbon emissions, the Paris Climate Agreement, a deal Trump said could damage the U.S. economy. Still, a majority of Republicans believe the United States should take "aggressive action" to combat global warming, Reuters polling shows. Some Republican lawmakers have offered proposals for "market-based" approaches to fend off climate change, such as cap-and-trade systems that would force companies to cut carbon emissions or buy credits from those that do. Democrats are pushing more aggressive ideas. Nearly all of the party's presidential hopefuls, who seek to unseat Trump in next year's election, have put forward proposals to end U.S. fossil fuels consumption within a few decades to make the country carbon neutral. Trump has slammed the idea, saying it would "kill millions of jobs" and "crush the dreams of the poorest Americans." Jennifer Marlon, a research scientist at the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication, said the divergence in the way American perceive the weather is being driven by factors including the news they consume and their social circles. Liberals are more likely to expose themselves to news outlets and people who believe climate change is an urgent threat that affects current weather patterns. For more conservative Americans, the link between weather and climate change is "not a typical conversation," Marlon said. Last year, the Yale program - which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change - set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States. It found that 22% of Republicans reported personally experiencing climate change, compared to 60% of Democrats. Scientists and researchers at the University of Michigan, the University of Exeter and others came to a similar conclusion in a 2018 study which found that political bias and partisan news reporting can affect whether people indicate experiencing certain extreme weather events.	False
668	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-04-17	Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well-crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap, the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	People across the country overwhelmingly support action on climate and investment in renewable energy sources, and believe immigrants make the United States a better place to live.	We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities.	We will march to demand inter-sectional immigrant rights: The right to freedom from hate crimes and harassment; the right to living wages and safe working conditions; the right to love whomever we choose; the right to keep families together; and the right to a clean and healthy environment.	Our policy, developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups, labor unions, public health organizations and other stakeholders, represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create: Comprehensive, equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation: climate change.	We will push our allies in the movement to use racial equity in their analyses by identifying disparate impacts of pollution and climate disruption and designing remedies that improve conditions for the most overburdened first. <sep> 	Who Will Protect The Air We Breathe And Water We Drink? The Resistance More and more Americans are coming to the conclusion that climate change is no myth at a time when the Trump administration is intent on ignoring reality and appeasing corporate interests. Some environmental leaders are responding by formulating a lowest common denominator strategy on climate, like revenue neutral approaches, hoping to magically create a middle ground by bowing to the altar of limited government. Fortunately, an inclusive, inter-sectional and organic resistance is rising. This spring, throughout a week of powerful demonstrations from Earth Day to May Day, this resistance will blossom. OneAmerica is a multi-issue immigrant rights organization that calls Washington state – aka the Center of the Resistance – home. Our communities are as harmed in the short term by ICE raids and unconstitutional travel bans as they are in the long term by gutted environmental regulations. To fight these destructive and unpopular attacks, we need everyone, but more importantly, we need to follow the leadership of those most impacted by these regulatory rollbacks and programmatic cuts. People across the country overwhelmingly support action on climate and investment in renewable energy sources, and believe immigrants make the United States a better place to live. In partnership with our allies among labor, environmental, faith, and progressive business groups, OneAmerica has worked with other organizations led by people of color to build a statewide movement for action on climate change that puts our communities and other front line communities first. Our communities, to quote environmental justice advocate Majora Carter, are the canaries in the coal mine: We have already begun to experience climate disruption by virtue of where we live and work, and we have always been on the front lines of pollution. Farm worker communities in Eastern Washington have worked through several severely hot summers, under threat of wildfires and job loss due to drought. In the Puget Sound region, some of the zip codes with the lowest life expectancy and highest pollution burdens are home to large and growing Latino and Asian Pacific American communities. Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well-crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap, the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people. We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities. Our policy, developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups, labor unions, public health organizations and other stakeholders, represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create: Comprehensive, equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation: climate change. That's why on Saturday, April 22nd, we will support an inclusive March for Science that embraces research-based policies to address climate change. We will push our allies in the movement to use racial equity in their analyses by identifying disparate impacts of pollution and climate disruption and designing remedies that improve conditions for the most overburdened first. The People's Climate Movement takes to the streets on Saturday, April 29th, shedding light on the intertwined destinies of clean energy and employment in the United States and around the world. Finally, on May Day, OneAmerica will join partner organizations in championing immigrant and workers' rights in Seattle and Yakima, in solidarity with mobilizations across the country. We will march to demand inter-sectional immigrant rights: The right to freedom from hate crimes and harassment; the right to living wages and safe working conditions; the right to love whomever we choose; the right to keep families together; and the right to a clean and healthy environment. These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse, and as strong as it is resilient. Our hope rests not in convincing the willfully ignorant to change their ways, but in the coming together of broad-based people's movements prepared to act to take back the initiative, moving from resistance to power.	True
719	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-06-28	In an attempt to defuse the tense moment, Perry described the protester as "one of the more interesting EIA employees," prompting laughter from the audience.	While man is "having an effect" on climate, he said, "most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in."	However, there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence.	Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue."	she pressed.		'You Are A Climate Denier': Protesters Interrupt Rick Perry's Speech At Energy Conference Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday. Instead, he opted to tell one "young lady" to "sit down," and said it's "OK … [to] be skeptical about information." You are a climate denier," said the first demonstrator, as members of the audience booed and called for her to "sit down" and to "get her out of here." In an attempt to defuse the tense moment, Perry described the protester as "one of the more interesting EIA employees," prompting laughter from the audience. Undeterred, the protester kept shouting questions at Perry, who then told her: "If you'll sit down, young lady … I'll finish my remarks." Answer my question, why will you not say that climate change is caused by carbon dioxide?" she pressed. Perry was referring to remarks he made during an interview last week with CNBC "Squawk Box." Perry told host Joe Kernan that carbon dioxide was not "the primary control knob" for climate change. While man is "having an effect" on climate, he said, "most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in." His response is in stark contrast to overwhelming scientific consensus based on facts, which says human activity, specifically greenhouse gas emissions, is the primary driver of global warming. The American Meteorological Society skewered Perry for his comments, saying in a letter last week that he lacked a "fundamental understanding of the science" behind climate change. During his EIA conference speech on Tuesday, Perry was interrupted a second time by a protester, who also called him a "climate denier." I think it's OK for us to ask questions and be skeptical about information," Perry said in response, according to a E&E News report of the event.″[S]kepticism and debate are always welcome and are critically important to the advancement of science," the letter said. "In climate science unresolved questions remain ― issues that currently lack conclusive evidence. However, there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence. Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue." Later on Tuesday, Perry was quizzed about climate change again during a White House press briefing, arranged as part of the Trump administration's "Energy Week." When asked if President Donald Trump believes in climate change, Perry responded "I have not had that conversation with him" ― joining a growing list of officials who have refused to comment on the commander in chief's position on this critical issue.	False
557	dailymail	questionable_source	2018-02-11	Trump said that he was biased because of his 'Mexican Heritage' and Trump's stance on the border.	The suit seeks a ruling that a border wall with Mexico must go through normal environmental reviews, which could block construction or at least cause major delays.	On Friday he heard two-and-a-half hours of arguments and said that he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews.	The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side, and we think the judge will agree.	Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University.		Lawsuit says Trump's wall threatens endangered species A tiny endangered butterfly could stop President Donald Trump from building his beloved border wall.A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversity, environmental groups and the State of California against the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. It outlines that the Quino checkerspot butterfly, Riverside fairy shrimp and the Pacific pocket mouse will be threatened if the border wall is built. The butterfly, which is native to southern California and Northern Mexico, is already on the endangered species list. The lawsuit contends that the Department of Homeland Security does not have the ability to waive environmental laws requiring review before building the wall. The suit seeks a ruling that a border wall with Mexico must go through normal environmental reviews, which could block construction or at least cause major delays. The challengers contend that authority to waive the environmental reviews falls under a 2005 law which has expired.'The Trump administration can't use an expired waiver to bypass crucial environmental protections to build these destructive projects,' Brian Segee, a senior attorney at CBD,told San Diego TV station KGTV.'It's time to stop Trump's hateful bombast and his executive overreach here in San Diego before it goes any further. The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side, and we think the judge will agree.'The DHS is arguing that it is within its right to issue the waivers, citing a 1996 immigration law. The case was set to be heard on Friday in San Diego by US District Judge Gonzalo Curiel. Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University. Trump said that he was biased because of his 'Mexican Heritage' and Trump's stance on the border. At the time, he told CNN: 'We are building a wall. He's a Mexican. We're building a wall between here and Mexico.'Now Curiel will be hearing a case about the wall. On Friday he heard two-and-a-half hours of arguments and said that he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews. The administration argues he doesn't have jurisdiction. Curiel asked the administration and wall opponents to file additional briefings by the end of Tuesday.	False
652	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-23	We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how we're going to contribute."	"People live here because they like rural living.	Andrew Cuomo's support.	"What I don't understand is with all of this going on why would the governor not allow the towns to choose how they'll support this initiative.	But we're not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	It could impact how they're performing as well." <sep> 	Official Pledges 'No Quarter' In Fight Against Wind Turbines In New York An upstate New York local official has promised "no quarter" in his town's battle against a planned wind power farm that has Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo's support. Yates town councilman John Riggi opposes Apex Clean Energy's plan to build a 200-megawatt wind turbine project over the objections of local officials and a majority of voters. Riggi says he's not opposed to green energy, but doesn't want it nearby if his constituents don't support it. He wrote an editorial in a local paper this week pledging to accept "no quarter" in the fight against the Lighthouse Wind farm." he main concern is the desires of the constituency who are massively opposed to this project," Riggi told The Daily Caller New Foundation. "It is like 87 percent opposed." Cuomo plans to drastically increase New York's wind power capacity as part of his effort to phase out fossil fuels. Cuomo wants New York to get 50 percent of its electricity from green energy source by 2030. Cuomo did not return requests for comment to TheDCNF." ome of these turbines would be 750 feet high," Riggi said. "They want to put 70 of them in a 24 square mile area." It would completely change the community into something very different from how it feels," Riggi said. "People live here because they like rural living. They don't want their areas turned into industrialized zones." Lighthouse Wind could also run into opposition from environmentalists, who are increasingly turning against wind power at the local level. Environmentalists have become concerned with wind powers impact on birds and bats. Wind farms kill an estimated 573,000 birds and 888,000 bats a year, according to a 2013 peer-reviewed study published in Wildlife Society Bulletin. Wind farms are projected to kill 1.4 million birds annually by 2030." his area sits astride the preeminent bird and avian flyway on the North American continent," Riggi said. "We have birds coming in massive amounts. There's an issue with that. It's a danger to the birds and bats." Wind farms kill an estimated 573,000 birds each year, as well as 888,000 bats, according to a 2013 peer-reviewed study published in Wildlife Society Bulletin. Wind farms are projected to kill 1.4 million birds annually by 2030." pex Clean Energy also works to ensure that our projects are responsibly sited for wildlife by conducting in-depth environmental impact studies for every project," Cat Strumlauf, a spokesperson for Apex, told TheDCNF. "At every stage of development and operation, we coordinate with federal and state wildlife agencies to make sure that our projects are sited in areas where impacts to birds or bats are minimized and appropriately mitigated if necessary." The project could harm with the region's economy, potentially creating problems for a nearby U.S. Air Force base." e also have an Air Force base 30 miles from the proposed project site," Riggi said. "The base is concerned about the wind project because it would mess with the radar. We have an aerial refueling and drone mission there. It could impact how they're performing as well." The wind farm could make a nearby military base, which is a critical part of the local economy, much less useful. The base pump $200 million a year into the region and employs over 2,600 people." pex Clean Energy takes the safety and readiness of our military very seriously, and we work closely with the Department of Defense and its services to ensure our wind energy facilities do not adversely impact military missions," Strumlauf said. Riggi is also worried about the health concerns involving wind turbines. One of most common complaints about wind turbines by local residents is that they cause "flickering" when the sun is behind their blades. This is generally agreed to be incredibly annoying and there's evidence that it can cause headaches, sleep disorders, anxiety and depression symptoms in people who live nearby. Finally, Riggi is concerned Cuomo's green goals give local government's very little flexibility to determine how they go green." ne of the thing the governor is very clear on is that he wants all towns to become more green," Riggi told TheDCNF. "What I don't understand is with all of this going on why would the governor not allow the towns to choose how they'll support this initiative. There's no flexibility." New York state currently gets less than 5 percent of its electricity from wind and solar, according to the Energy Information Administration (EIA). That's a long way from Cuomo's 50 percent by 2030 target." o we want to reduce our carbon footprint?," Riggi said. "Certainly. But we're not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves. We're full in on renewable energy, but the town wants to have a choice. We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how we're going to contribute." Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
221	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2019-03-31	He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time.	Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953.	Erik Grafe, an attorney with Earthjustice, welcomed the ruling, saying it "shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans, wildlife and climate."	U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy.	At issue in the case was the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.		Judge strikes down Trump's offshore drilling decision President Trump exceeded his authority when he reversed bans on offshore drilling in vast parts of the Arctic Ocean and dozens of canyons in the Atlantic Ocean, a U.S. judge said in a ruling that restored the Obama-era restrictions. U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy. Presidents have the power under a federal law to remove certain lands from development but cannot revoke those removals, Gleason said." The wording of President Obama's 2015 and 2016 withdrawals indicates that he intended them to extend indefinitely, and therefore be revocable only by an act of Congress," said Gleason, who was nominated to the bench by Obama. The American Petroleum Institute, a defendant in the case, disagreed with the ruling." In addition to bringing supplies of affordable energy to consumers for decades to come, developing our abundant offshore resources can provide billions in government revenue, create thousands of jobs and will also strengthen our national security," it said in a statement. Erik Grafe, an attorney with Earthjustice, welcomed the ruling, saying it "shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans, wildlife and climate." Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans. At issue in the case was the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953. He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time. In 2015, Mr. Obama halted exploration in coastal areas of the Beaufort and Chukchi seas and the Hanna Shoal, an important area for walrus. In late 2016, he withdrew most other potential Arctic Ocean lease areas - about 98 percent of the Arctic outer continental shelf. The bans were intended to protect polar bears, walruses, ice seals and Alaska Native villages that depend on the animals. In the Atlantic, Mr. Obama banned exploration in 5,937 square miles of underwater canyon complexes, citing their importance for marine mammals, deep-water corals, valuable fish populations and migratory whales.	False
602	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-07	Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund (RBF), Rockefeller Family Fund (RFF), and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times' report.	Wasserman wrote an op-ed in January for the California paper, fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxon's climate research.	Columbia Journalism School's Energy and Environment Reporting Project, the group that conducted the paper's report, was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxon's climate change research.	Thursday's report dovetails with the group's previous investigations showing the oil company hid knowledge about climate change from the public for years."	The only way to target Exxon for hiding climate change research was to request the New York AGs office to open an investigation into the company, David Kaiser and Lee Wasserman, directors of RFF, wrote in an editorial for New York Books.		Enviro-Funded Report Ties Exxon Crusade To Largest Oil Spill In History Global warming is partially responsible for a decades-old oil spill that happened after an Exxon Mobil tanker hit a barrier reef, according to a Los Angeles Times report funded in part by liberal billionaire George Soros. The LA Times published a wide-ranging piece Thursday suggesting climate change laid the groundwork for the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill, a disaster that eventually dumped more than 10 million gallons of crude off the coast of Alaska. Higher than normal water temperatures near Prince William Sound caused ice bergs to chip off the Columbia Glacier and force the ship into uncharted territory. Floating chunks of ice forced the tanker out of its primary shipping lane, the paper noted. It veered off and crashed into the Bligh Reef, causing Exxon more than $3.4 billion through 2008 in cleanup costs and court settlements. Columbia Journalism School's Energy and Environment Reporting Project, the group that conducted the paper's report, was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxon's climate change research. Thursday's report dovetails with the group's previous investigations showing the oil company hid knowledge about climate change from the public for years." or the two decades following the Exxon Valdez disaster, the company worked quietly to safeguard its operations and infrastructure against steadily rising sea levels and thawing permafrost," The LA Times wrote. "Yet in public, it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change." Some climate scientists believe the LA Times is taking a leap of faith. Roy Spencer, a climate scientist at the University of Alabama in Huntsville, for one, told The Daily Caller News Foundation that "ice always calves off glaciers, because snow falls on the mountains, and the ice flows downhill — no global warming needed." There is a perfectly reasonable explanation for why ice bergs were cleaving off glaciers at the time of the Valdez disaster, he said, and it doesn't really have anything to do with man-made global warming." f the Columbia Glacier was calving more in the 1980s, it's most likely because the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) flipped in the late 1970s, which caused it to suddenly warm in Alaska," Spencer added, referencing an El Nino-like weather pattern that commonly affects the area the oil spill. What happened to the Valdez is no different than what happened to the Titanic, he said, referring to the passenger ship that hit an iceberg in 1912, which killed thousands of people heading to New York from England. Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund (RBF), Rockefeller Family Fund (RFF), and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times' report. Soros is the director and founder of Open Society and has financed climate crusades in the past. RFF has single-handedly financially propped up the anti-Exxon campaign. It also pressured various attorneys general into investigating Exxon, namely for the purposes of bringing the company up on racketeering charges. The only way to target Exxon for hiding climate change research was to request the New York AGs office to open an investigation into the company, David Kaiser and Lee Wasserman, directors of RFF, wrote in an editorial for New York Books. The LA Times, for its part, has failed in the past to disclose its ties with RFF. Wasserman wrote an op-ed in January for the California paper, fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxon's climate research. The paper disclosed the Wasserman's financial contributions to the investigation, but falsely suggested RFF had nothing to do with the investigations." he Fund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism School's Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News, but has no involvement in articles they produce," the paper's disclosure notes. The disclosure implies RFF did not actively participate in the investigations, which were first reported by environmental media group, InsideClimate News and the LA Times last November. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
424	cnn	left_bias	2018-11-26	But even before the report was made public, Americans were extremely worried about climate change.	Over half (53%) of voters in the August Quinnipiac poll said climate change is a factor in making fires more extreme.	Eight-in-10 Democrats, 54% of independents, and 22% of Republicans thought in August that climate change has an impact the fires.	That's up from 2010, when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them.	Americans are worried about climate change (CNN) The new government report on climate change, which the Trump administration released quietly a day after Thanksgiving and two days after President Donald Trump tweeted skeptically about the existence of climate change, warns that the drastic human effects on the climate could cause thousands of Americans to die and cost the US economy hundreds of billions of dollars.		Americans are worried about climate change (CNN) The new government report on climate change, which the Trump administration released quietly a day after Thanksgiving and two days after President Donald Trump tweeted skeptically about the existence of climate change, warns that the drastic human effects on the climate could cause thousands of Americans to die and cost the US economy hundreds of billions of dollars. But even before the report was made public, Americans were extremely worried about climate change. Almost two-thirds (64%) of voters said the US needs to be doing more to address climate change, according to a poll by Quinnipiac University in August, up from 57% who said the same in December 2015This opinion is divided by party lines: 91% of Democrats said more should be done, and 67% of independents agreed. Fewer Republicans (one third) said more should be done about climate change, and another third of Republicans thought that the US is doing enough to address climate change. In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll , 83% of Democrats thought the US should be doing more, compared to 62% of independents and 26% of Republicans. The Trump administration chose to speed up release of the new report, which is required by law, putting it out on Black Friday instead of in December. It also came two days after Trump issued another tweet transmitting his skepticism of the existence of Climate change." Brutal and Extended Cold Blast could shatter ALL RECORDS - Whatever happened to Global Warming?" he said Wednesday on Twitter. An earlier portion of the climate change report was released in November 2017 and found "no convincing alternative explanation" for the changing climate other than "human activities, especially emissions of greenhouse gases." Trump has stood by his years-old claim that climate change is a hoax and emphasized that belief with his statements about the California wildfires , which he said were a result of poor forest management, drawing criticism from firefighters, climate scientists and many others. The government report, which is called the National Climate Assessment , addressed wildfires, reporting that one impact of climate change will be longer and more destructive wildfires, that could burn up to six times more forest annually by 2050 in parts of the US. California's wildfires are the worst in the state's history. Over half (53%) of voters in the August Quinnipiac poll said climate change is a factor in making fires more extreme. At that point, the fires in California were only beginning, and some are still burning in November, so it's unclear whether that number has changed since August. Eight-in-10 Democrats, 54% of independents, and 22% of Republicans thought in August that climate change has an impact the fires. Another impact of climate change will be on the health of Americans, whether because of extreme heat and higher temperatures, diseases (like Zika) that come from mosquitoes and ticks, more food and waterborne diseases, or higher risk of asthma and allergies. Concern about climate change and global warming has gone up in the last few years -- from 33% who said they worry a great deal about it in March 2013 to 43% who say the same now, according to GallupAround the same number (45%) said they think global warming will pose a serious threat to them or their way of life in their lifetimes in the March poll. That's up from 2010, when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them. Democrats are much more likely to think they'll be impacted (67%) than independents (45%) or Republicans (18%), but whether that's because more Democrats live in coastal regions or due to just plain partisanship, it's hard to tell. In a statement by White House deputy press secretary Lindsey Walters, the Trump administration downplayed the report, saying it "is largely based on the most extreme scenario, which contradicts long-established trends by assuming that despite strong economic growth that would increase greenhouse gas emissions, there would be limited technology and innovation, and a rapidly expanding population."	False
139	politicususa	left_bias	2019-08-28	he wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths, focusing on environmental justice and enforcement," said one of the sources.	At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail.	Bahram Fazeli, director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment, a California-focused environmental justice group, said Harris' record on the environment was "decent."	While activist groups say they are generally happy with Harris' environmental credentials, she has drawn their criticism since launching her presidential bid.	The campaign is expected to release the plan ahead of a climate change-focused town hall with the candidates on Sept. 4, they said.A spokeswoman for Harris' campaign, Kate Waters, declined to comment on the details but said Harris would be releasing something "soon."		Kamala Harris' climate plan to draw on her experience suing polluters (Reuters) – U.S. presidential hopeful Kamala Harris' campaign is finalizing a plan to tackle climate change that will center on cracking down on fossil fuel companies and protecting poor neighborhoods from the worst impacts of global warming, according to two sources familiar with the matter. The plan is meant to set the U.S. senator from California apart in a crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates by drawing on her experience prosecuting polluters as a California attorney general and district attorney. At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail. All of the other top-tier presidential candidates have already detailed aggressive plans to eliminate U.S. greenhouse gas emissions within 10 to 30 years, tapping into what has become a crucial issue for Democratic voters." he wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths, focusing on environmental justice and enforcement," said one of the sources. Like the other candidates, Harris' plan will also likely target a swift end to fossil fuels use, though the details are still being drafted, the sources said. The campaign is expected to release the plan ahead of a climate change-focused town hall with the candidates on Sept. 4, they said.A spokeswoman for Harris' campaign, Kate Waters, declined to comment on the details but said Harris would be releasing something "soon." While activist groups say they are generally happy with Harris' environmental credentials, she has drawn their criticism since launching her presidential bid. Last week, for example, she came under fire from the Sunrise Movement and other climate change activists when she initially declined to participate in the televised Sept. 4 climate change town hall to attend a fundraiser. Her campaign later announced she had changed her plans and would attend. During campaign speeches, she tends to include a brief mention of climate change, calling it a real crisis and adding that she would re-engage the United States in global efforts to fight it if elected. Republican President Donald Trump has rolled back U.S. climate change rules he views as damaging to the economy, and announced plans to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement, an international accord to limit global warming. Bahram Fazeli, director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment, a California-focused environmental justice group, said Harris' record on the environment was "decent." As a senator, Harris was among the original co-sponsors of the Green New Deal – a nonbinding congressional resolution to zero out U.S. emissions by 2030 – and introduced bills to denounce Trump's efforts to roll back California's vehicle emissions standards and drill for oil and natural gas in federal waters. She has also co-sponsored an environmental justice bill with Green New Deal author congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez, which includes the creation of a federal office for environmental justice. Previously, as California's attorney general, Harris was charged with protecting the state's progressive environmental laws in the courts. Her biggest environmental victory, according to green groups, came in 2016 when a grand jury indicted Plains All-American Pipeline on criminal charges related to a 2015 oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara. She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change, though her office never confirmed the probe. Since then both New York and Massachusetts have pursued cases against the oil company. Earlier, as district attorney for San Francisco, Harris also created the city's first environmental crimes unit.	False
187	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-03-20	The petition is being circulated for signature by ) of the CompetitiveEnterprise Institute, a lobby group for "free market" fanatics which hasbecome infamous for ).	makes many inaccurate and misleadingassertions, such as: "Readily available data from both governmental and non-governmental sources confirms that extreme weather events in recent years havenot happened more often or with greater intensity."	Media reports suggest that Professor Happer and his fellow propagandists willtarget the ),which was prepared by leading researchers in the United States, and concludedlast November: "The impacts of climate change are already being felt incommunities across the country."	Americans should not be conned by the Trump administration's climatelysenkoism and should instead place their trust in the ) who place the public interest ahead of political ideology.	The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers, and the recruitmentof supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy, echoes )to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the) pseudo-scientific theories of TrofimLysenko.		Donald Trump is using Stalinist techniques against climate science | Michael Mann and Bob Ward Americans should not be fooled by the Stalinist tactics being used by theWhite House to try to discredit the findings of mainstream climate science. The Trump administration has already ) about climate change from governmentwebsites, )and attempted to ). Now a group of hardcore climate change deniers and contrarians linked to theadministration is ) in support of ) being set up by the NationalSecurity Council to promote an alternative official explanation for climatechange. The panel will consist of scientists who do not accept the overwhelmingscientific evidence that rising levels of carbon dioxide and other greenhousegases in the atmosphere are behind climate change and its impacts. The petition is being circulated for signature by ) of the CompetitiveEnterprise Institute, a lobby group for "free market" fanatics which hasbecome infamous for ). It does not disclose its sources of funding, but is known to have receivedmoney ) such as the Koch brothers. Mr Ebell, who has no expertise whatsoever in climate science – or any kind ofscience for that matter – was ) and diverted the focus of theEnvironmental Protection Agency towards weakening and removing policies thatlimit pollution by companies, including President Obama's Clean Power Plan. The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers, and the recruitmentof supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy, echoes )to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the) pseudo-scientific theories of TrofimLysenko. Lysenko wrongly believed that acquired traits could be passed on by parents totheir offspring. Stalin embraced lysenkoism as the basis for Sovietagricultural policy, while also denouncing and persecuting Lysenko'sscientific critics. The Trump administration's "climate lysenkoism" is being led by WilliamHapper, a retired professor from Princeton University ) inSeptember 2018 as deputy assistant to the president and senior director foremerging technologies. Media reports suggest that Professor Happer and his fellow propagandists willtarget the ),which was prepared by leading researchers in the United States, and concludedlast November: "The impacts of climate change are already being felt incommunities across the country." Although the report was subjected to )at the National Academy of Sciences, it was rejected by President Trump, )Professor Happer, who has not published any research on climate change in areputable science journal, has been celebrated for many years by climatechange contrarians and deniers around the world. He was formerly a trustee of the George C Marshall Institute, which receivedfunding from ExxonMobil and other companies to spread doubt inside and)about the role of fossil fuels in climate change. It disappeared in 2015 andwas replaced by the CO2 Coalition, which was co-founded by Professor Happer.) makes many inaccurate and misleadingassertions, such as: "Readily available data from both governmental and non-governmental sources confirms that extreme weather events in recent years havenot happened more often or with greater intensity." In fact, the Fifth Assessment Report by the Intergovernmental Panel on ClimateChange, published in 2013,):"Changes in many extreme weather and climate events have been observed sinceabout 1950."A recent leak of ) showedthat its largest donors are conservative groups, such as the Mercer FamilyFoundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, which have a long track record offunding climate change denial. Professor Happer has also collaborated with climate change deniers in othercountries, such as the United Kingdom. In 2010, he joined the "AcademicAdvisory Committee" of the Global Warming Policy Foundation, which was set upby Lord Lawson to campaign against polices to reduce greenhouse gas emissionsfrom the consumption of fossil fuels. He stepped down from the committee whenhe was hired by the White House. The foundation published ) in August 2011 which disputed thescientific evidence that greenhouse gases are causing climate change. In July 2014, Professor Happer caused controversy during ) in the United States when he claimed that"the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poorJews under Hitler. Carbon dioxide is actually a benefit to the world, and sowere the Jews." He was also forced to defend himself after Greenpeace revealed ) during which Professor Happer discussedwriting reports to promote climate change denial in exchange for a secret feepaid to the CO2 Coalition. Americans should not be conned by the Trump administration's climatelysenkoism and should instead place their trust in the ) who place the public interest ahead of political ideology.	False
825	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-08-18	he fact that this stuff is there, measured in picograms or fractions of a picogram, is of no consequence to people," he says.	There is global warming.	Lovelock is probably best known in environmental circles as the progenitor of Gaia theory – the idea that the planet is a self-regulating, living organism.	He feels the same way about the scare about pesticides, which greens have been heavily promoting ever since Rachel Carson's eco-doom bestseller Silent Spring, published in 1962.	His change of heart was brought about partly by being in Oslo when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.		Delingpole: 'Renewable Energy Is a Corrupt Scam, Go Nuclear!' Says Green Guru James Lovelock So says James Lovelock, 98, one of the world's pre-eminent environmentalists in a wide-ranging interview on today's Delingpole podcast for Breitbart. Lovelock is probably best known in environmental circles as the progenitor of Gaia theory – the idea that the planet is a self-regulating, living organism. In 2006, he boosted his green credibility even further with his bestselling book The Revenge of Gaia, whose doomsday narrative predicted that by 2100 climate change would have wiped out 80 percent of the world's population. But Lovelock has since renounced this view. Though he still thinks carbon dioxide is a problem because of its warming effects on the climate, he now believes the threat is not immediate. His change of heart was brought about partly by being in Oslo when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. He was not impressed by the calibre of the scientists attached to the IPCC – least of all its then-head Rajendra Pachauri "who turned out to be somewhat corrupt." There is global warming. But the stupid bloody academics screwed it up," he says now – meaning that they got their sums wrong and exaggerated the speed with which the planet is warming.A bigger worry, he says, are the wrong-headed policies being introduced supposedly to combat "climate change." He particularly loathes wind turbines because they are expensive, inefficient and environmentally damaging. The only reason they are being built, he says, is because "there is so much money in renewable energy. I'm sure there's giant corruption going on." The solution, he argues, is nuclear power which has had a terrible press because of green propaganda most likely funded by fossil fuel industries. Nuclear's health risks have been exaggerated by credulous greens who say "there's no amount of radiation that can't give you cancer." But this is nonsense, says Lovelock." t's as stupid as saying you should never go out of your home because if you do there's a chance you'll be killed by something or other." He feels the same way about the scare about pesticides, which greens have been heavily promoting ever since Rachel Carson's eco-doom bestseller Silent Spring, published in 1962. It was Lovelock who invented the device – an Electron Capture Detector – used to measure the tiniest quantities of substances be they pesticides or CFCs. What this device showed is that, yes, pesticides have indeed become so embedded in the food chain that they are detectable in every living thing." his has made the Greens very happy" he says, because it seems to confirm all their worst suspicions about pollutants, chemicals and health hazards. But it shouldn't, he adds, because – with certain exceptions – they are not a problem." he fact that this stuff is there, measured in picograms or fractions of a picogram, is of no consequence to people," he says. Lovelock's remarks are unlikely to endear him to the green movement. His Gaia hypothesis, first formulated in the 1960s while he was working with NASA trying to establish how to detect life on Mars, has inspired many people to join the green religion. And even – like actress Emma Thompson – to name their daughter after it. But far, far worse in many environmentalists' eyes will be the unlikely revelation he confided to me over lunch: he's a great admirer of Donald Trump, whom he recognises as a fellow maverick.	False
737	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-10-05	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda, the Trump administration has had one goal in mind: destroying former President Obama's environmental legacy.	U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a "reasoned explanation" for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	On Wednesday, one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling, the reason she called for the Obama-era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a "reasoned explanation" as to why it's flawed.	In a way, that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy.		Federal Judge Smacks Down Trump Effort To Dismantle Obama-Era Environmental Protection A federal judge smacked down a new effort by the Trump administration to roll back an Obama-era rule "aimed at restricting harmful methane emissions from oil and gas production on federal lands," according to a new report on Wednesday. The news comes as Donald Trump's Interior Department was in the process of delaying the regulation until 2019, calling it "too burdensome to the industry." More from the report via The Washington Post:The order by a judge in San Francisco came as the Interior Department moved to delay the rule until 2019, saying it was too burdensome to industry. The action followed an earlier effort by Interior to postpone part of the rule set to take effect next year. U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a "reasoned explanation" for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty. She ordered the entire rule reinstated immediately. As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling, the reason she called for the Obama-era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a "reasoned explanation" as to why it's flawed. In a way, that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy. After all, there is no reasonable explanation for anything this president has done when it comes to the environment, whether it's allowing toxic sludge to be dumped in our waterways or pulling out of the historic Paris climate accord. While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda, the Trump administration has had one goal in mind: destroying former President Obama's environmental legacy. On Wednesday, one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	False
378	foxnews	right_bias	2018-11-25	Report director David Reidmiller said questions about the timing were "relevant," but said what was in the report was more important.	"We're in an era of backlash against elites, so Gore, a guy who bought a 6,500-square-foot seafront home in California for $8.8 million, and who hangs around with other celebrities who talk big on climate but who live lavish lifestyles, is the perfect target at this point in time."	e is a flawed character," Stephen Lacey, editor-in-chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia, said on his podcast "The Energy Gang" last year.	The day, known as Black Friday, has become the traditional start of the holiday shopping season and one that most Americans have off from work."	It was written long before the deadly fires in California this month and before Hurricanes Florence and Michael raked the East Coast and Florida."		Al Gore blasts Trump for 'burying' climate report by releasing it on Black Friday Former Vice President Al Gore accused the Trump administration of trying to "bury' a damning government report that linked global warming to the worsening of natural disasters by quietly releasing the study on the Friday after Thanksgiving. Gore, who since his time as vice president has become an outspoken advocate for the need to counteract the effects of global warming, said in a statement that the White House was trying to "bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis" by releasing it the day after Thanksgiving. The day, known as Black Friday, has become the traditional start of the holiday shopping season and one that most Americans have off from work." nbelievably deadly and tragic wildfires rage in the West, hurricanes batter our coasts — and the Trump administration chooses the Friday after Thanksgiving to try and bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis," Gore said in a statement that he posted on Twitter Friday. "The president may try to hide the truth, but his own scientists and experts have made it as stark and clear as possible." The National Climate Assessment, which is mandated by law every few years and is based on more than 1,000 previous research studies, details how global warming -- from the burning of coal, oil and gas -- is hurting each region of the United States and how it impacts different sectors of the economy, including energy and agriculture. It was written long before the deadly fires in California this month and before Hurricanes Florence and Michael raked the East Coast and Florida." Climate change is transforming where and how we live and presents growing challenges to human health and quality of life, the economy, and the natural systems that support us," the report says. This includes worsening air pollution causing heart and lung problems, more diseases from insects, the potential for a jump in deaths during heat waves, and nastier allergies, according to the report." nnual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century — more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many U.S. states," the report says. It'll be especially costly on the nation's coasts because of rising seas and severe storm surges, which will lower property values. And in some areas, such as parts of Alaska and Louisiana, coastal flooding will likely force people to relocate." While Gore has become one of the most prominent advocates for reducing carbon emissions and fighting to reduce the effect of climate change, the former vice president has not been immune from claims that his work is not as altruistic as it appears. Gore left the vice president's residence with a relatively modest net worth of $1.7 million -- mostly from family farm assets -- but since the release of his 2006 documentary "An Inconvenient Truth" and his continuing global tour to preach his message, he has amassed a fortune valued at upward of $200 million. From the fossil fuels he burns jetting around the globe, to his socializing with Hollywood heavy hitters, to his 6,500-square-foot seafront home in California that cost $8.8 million, some climate activists have questioned whether Gore is helping or hurting the climate fight." e is a flawed character," Stephen Lacey, editor-in-chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia, said on his podcast "The Energy Gang" last year. "We're in an era of backlash against elites, so Gore, a guy who bought a 6,500-square-foot seafront home in California for $8.8 million, and who hangs around with other celebrities who talk big on climate but who live lavish lifestyles, is the perfect target at this point in time." Gore's lifestyle aside, his statement comes amid what appears to be a continuing denial from Trump and members of his administration about the dangers climate change poses to the environment and to the world's economy. Earlier in the week, Trump tweeted about the brutal cold spell that hit the East Coast over the Thanksgiving holiday and questioned "Whatever happened to Global Warming?"Friday's report seemed to anticipate such comments, saying: "Over shorter timescales and smaller geographic regions, the influence of natural variability can be larger than the influence of human activity ... Over climate timescales of multiple decades, however, global temperature continues to steadily increase." The Lower 48 states have warmed 1.8 degrees (1 degree Celsius) since 1900 with 1.2 degrees in the last few decades, according to the report. By the end of the century, the U.S. will be 3 to 12 degrees (1.6 to 6.6 degrees Celsius) hotter depending on how much greenhouse gases are released into the atmosphere, the report warns. Releasing the report on Black Friday "is a transparent attempt by the Trump administration to bury this report and continue the campaign of not only denying, but suppressing the best of climate science," said study co-author Andrew Light, an international policy expert at the World Resources Institute. During a press conference Friday, officials behind the report repeatedly declined to answer questions about the timing of its release and why it contradicts public statements from Trump. Report director David Reidmiller said questions about the timing were "relevant," but said what was in the report was more important. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
330	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-10-08	The report calls for societal changes that are "unprecedented in terms of scale" in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius, the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	The IPCC's report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	However, the IPCC suggested a lower carbon tax could be used in conjunction with command and control policies, like regulations and bans on coal plants, could achieve "generate a 1.5˚C pathway for the U.S. electric sector."	hile the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 [degree Celsius]-consistent pathways, a complementary mix of stringent policies is required," reads the IPCC's report.	The IPCC noted the "literature indicates that the pricing of emissions is relevant but needs to be complemented with other policies to drive the required changes in line with 1.5°C-consistent cost-effective pathways."		A $240 Per Gallon Gas Tax To Fight Global Warming? New UN Report Suggests Carbon Pricing A United Nations special climate report suggests a tax on carbon dioxide emissions would need to be as high as $27,000 per ton at the end of the century to effectively limit global warming. For Americans, that's the same as a $240 per gallon tax on gasoline in the year 2100, should such a recommendation be adopted. In 2030, the report says a carbon tax would need to be as high as $5,500 — that's equivalent to a $49 per gallon gas tax. If you think that's an unlikely scenario, you're probably not wrong. However, it's what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's report, released Sunday night, sees as a policy option for reducing emissions enough to keep projected warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. The IPCC's report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December. The report calls for societal changes that are "unprecedented in terms of scale" in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius, the stretch goal of the Paris accord. However, the costs of meeting that goal are high based on the IPCC's own figures. (RELATED: Here's What The Media Won't Tell You About The U.N.'s New Climate Report)In order to effectively keep future warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius, the IPCC says carbon taxes would need to range from $135 to $5,500 per ton in 2030, $245 to $13,000 per ton in 2050, $420 to $17,000 per ton in 2070 and $690 to $27,000 per ton in 2100. To meet the goals of the Paris accord, which seeks to limit future warming to below 2 degrees Celsius, the IPCC says carbon taxes would have range between $10 and $200 in 2030 and $160 and $2,125 in 2100. That's equivalent to a gas tax as high as $1.70 per gallon in 2030 to nearly $19 per gallon at the end of the century. That's less onerous than limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, but still no walk in the park. California and many European countries have policies to price carbon dioxide emissions and mandate green energy, including cap-and-trade systems and carbon taxes. But carbon prices under those systems are nowhere near where the IPCC says they need to be. The IPCC said the "price of carbon would need to increase significantly when a higher level of stringency is pursued." However, the group's report tacitly acknowledges the unlikelihood that governments will enact astronomical taxes on energy." hile the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 [degree Celsius]-consistent pathways, a complementary mix of stringent policies is required," reads the IPCC's report. In the U.S., Republican lawmakers overwhelmingly passed a resolution opposed to carbon taxes in July. Democrats called for a price on carbon dioxide in their 2016 party platform, but they haven't made much effort on that front since the failure of cap-and-trade legislation in 2010. Republican Rep. Carlos Curbelo of Florida introduced carbon tax legislation shortly after all but five of his GOP colleagues in the House voted to oppose such a bill. Curbelo's bill would tax carbon dioxide at $23 a ton — nowhere near what the IPCC calls for. However, the IPCC suggested a lower carbon tax could be used in conjunction with command and control policies, like regulations and bans on coal plants, could achieve "generate a 1.5˚C pathway for the U.S. electric sector." But that point only serves to undermine Curbelo's bill, which would put a moratorium on some environmental regulations and possibly eliminate some if emissions goals are reached. The IPCC noted the "literature indicates that the pricing of emissions is relevant but needs to be complemented with other policies to drive the required changes in line with 1.5°C-consistent cost-effective pathways."	False
294	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-10-09	s I've traveled this country, I've heard the human stories from frontline communities.	Families where many people have cancer.	For instance, Warren says her housing plan will provide an assistance program, aimed to get impoverished families out of poor, pollution-ridden neighborhoods and into the "neighborhood of their choice."	In this instance, it is the "Superfund Waste Tax."	Warren argues that "justice" plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change "crisis," citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people:Warren calls this phenomenon "environmental racism" and concludes that "environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long."		Elizabeth Warren Touts Plan to Address 'Environmental Racism' Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) on Wednesday unveiled her plan to address "environmental injustice" and "environmental racism," which includes a $1 trillion investment into minority communities affected by "industrial pollution." Warren argues that "justice" plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change "crisis," citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people:Warren calls this phenomenon "environmental racism" and concludes that "environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long." She previewed her plan in a video clip featuring far-left "Squad" member Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-MI)." e need a government that's on the side of families—not giant corporations polluting our communities. @RashidaTlaib and I walked through 48217, the most polluted zip code in Michigan, and talked with the families living every day with the effects of pollution," Warren tweeted alongside the clip:Like Warren's other proposals, her environmental injustice plan weaves in aspects of her other campaign promises. For instance, Warren says her housing plan will provide an assistance program, aimed to get impoverished families out of poor, pollution-ridden neighborhoods and into the "neighborhood of their choice." She also pledges to invest one-third – or $1 trillion – of her climate change investment "into the most vulnerable communities," although she does not specify what the $1 trillion will be spent on, specifically. Like most of Warren's plans, her environmental injustice proposal involves the implementation of another tax. In this instance, it is the "Superfund Waste Tax." There are over 1300 remaining Superfund sites across the country, many located in or adjacent to frontline communities. So-called "orphan" toxic waste clean-ups were originally funded by a series of excise taxes on the petroleum and chemical industries. But thanks to Big Oil and other industry lobbyists, when that tax authority expired in 1995 it was not renewed. Polluters must pay for the consequences of their actions – not leave them for the communities to clean up. I'll work with Congress to reinstate and then triple the Superfund tax, generating needed revenue to clean up the mess. The presidential hopeful even weaves in Medicare for All as part of her broader proposal, arguing such a system will "make it easier for the federal government to quickly tailor health care responses to specific environmental disasters in affected communities when they occur." Warren also reiterates her pledge to "ensure that employers and our government honor the promises they made to workers in fossil fuel industries." I've fought for years to protect pensions and health benefits for retired coal workers, and I'll continue fighting to maintain the solvency of multi-employer pension plans," she said. "As president, I'll protect those benefits that fossil fuel workers have earned." However, Warren's role in crafting a petition to the Supreme Court on behalf of LTV Steel – which helped the company's "fight against a congressional requirement that it pay millions of dollars into a fund for its retired coal miners' health care" – calls her promise into question." s I've traveled this country, I've heard the human stories from frontline communities. Families where many people have cancer. Coastal communities facing the threat of rising sea levels. Ruined land and poisoned water," Warren tweeted." hese communities need justice—and I will stand with them," she added:	False
386	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-12-18	org.	Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on "climate change and the migrant caravan," claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence, "climate change is also playing a part" based on an interview with a farmer-turned-migrant who's crop failed.	The video, published on Dec. 13, largely reflects arguments made by some media outlets in the past few months that migrant caravans to the U.S. are a "preview of climate migrations" — meaning people driven from their homes due to global warming.	Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims, but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations."	The Guardian also noted that federal data showed "a surge in outward migration from western Honduras, a prime coffee-producing area."		Al Gore: Migrant Caravan Is A 'Startling Example' Of Global Warming Former Vice President Al Gore said the Central American migrant caravan seeking asylum in the U.S. is a "recent, startling example" of global warming forcing people from their homes." eople from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood. The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent, startling example," Gore tweeted Monday. The migrant caravan, made up of thousands of mostly young males from Honduras and other Central American countries, arrived at the U.S.-Mexico border in November seeking asylum. Migrants are fleeing violent, corrupt countries with poor economies, but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame. Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on "climate change and the migrant caravan," claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence, "climate change is also playing a part" based on an interview with a farmer-turned-migrant who's crop failed. The video, published on Dec. 13, largely reflects arguments made by some media outlets in the past few months that migrant caravans to the U.S. are a "preview of climate migrations" — meaning people driven from their homes due to global warming. Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims, but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations." xperts say that … climate change in the region is exacerbating – and sometimes causing – a miasma of other problems including crop failures and poverty," The Guardian reported in October." nd they warn that in the coming decades, it is likely to push millions more people north towards the US," the paper reported. Central American officials also claim global warming is part of the reason why their citizens are fleeing en mass. Governments say droughts have been made more frequent and intense by global warming. However, the latest United Nations climate report in 2014 found "low confidence in a global-scale observed trend in drought or dryness (lack of rainfall) since the middle of the 20th century." The Guardian also noted that federal data showed "a surge in outward migration from western Honduras, a prime coffee-producing area." The collapse in coffee bean prices has made growing it less profitable, forcing migrants to hit the road. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
300	rt	questionable_source	2019-09-23	"People are suffering.	"Thunberg's fiery speech was likewise met with praise or disdain, depending on where one stood in regard to the narrative of manmade climate change.	Think your friends would be interested?	Caught on camera, her stare sparked a thousand tweets and divided the public.	We are in the beginning of a mass extinction, and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.		Thunberg vs Trump: Showdown at UNGA sparks memes & snark Arriving at the UN General Assembly, US President Donald Trump paid no attention to Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg. Caught on camera, her stare sparked a thousand tweets and divided the public. While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit, Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom. Video from the UN headquarters on East River shows Thunberg scowling as Trump enters the building to speak to reporters, not even registering her presence. Trump's critics were quick to make Thunberg their "shero,"describing her stare their new "life goals" and declaring that the 16-year-old climate activist "became president today." We are all Greta," another resistance activist proclaimed, sharing a photo of Thunberg scowling at Trump next to a photo of her meeting his predecessor, Barack Obama. Conservatives who saw the images reacted differently, praising Trump for ignoring Thunberg – as if he did it on purpose – and even meme-ing her scowl to music and song lyrics. Trump has nixed dozens of Obama administration environmental regulations, calling them deadly to the economy, much to the outrage of climate activists. A faction among the Democrats has since proposed a "Green New Deal" that would eliminate carbon emissions altogether and reorder the US economy entirely, warning that otherwise the world would end in 12 years. Thunberg is even more pessimistic. At the current rate, the world will go over the carbon emissions cap in eight and a half years, she warned in her speech on Monday." You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words," she thundered at the world leaders on Monday. "People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction, and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you!"Thunberg's fiery speech was likewise met with praise or disdain, depending on where one stood in regard to the narrative of manmade climate change. The environmentalist movement is increasingly convinced that humanity is destroying the planet, and has already called for banning the production and consumption of meat, outlawing fossil fuels, and shuttering down nuclear power plants, despite the cost and burden on people that may produce. Later on Monday, the president did finally notice the young activist. In an apparent jab at Thunberg, he tweeted she looked like a "very happy girl," alongside a clip of her 'angry' address before the UN. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
802	PBS	left_center_bias	2017-10-09	The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power-plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions.	Even so, the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal-fired plants, which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power, as well as state mandates promoting energy conservation.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change, including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal-burning power plants.	Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report from Washington.	Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state, Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man-man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.		EPA chief says White House to roll back Obama-era clean power plan HAZARD, Ky. — The head of the Environmental Protection Agency said Monday that he will sign a new rule overriding the Clean Power Plan, an Obama-era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants." he war on coal is over," EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declared in the coal mining state of Kentucky. For Pruitt, getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma. Pruitt was among about two-dozen attorney generals who sued to stop President Barack Obama's push to limit carbon emissions. Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state, Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man-man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change. President Donald Trump, who appointed Pruitt and shares his skepticism of established climate science, promised to kill the Clean Power Plan during the 2016 campaign as part of his broader pledge to revive the nation's struggling coal mines. In his order Tuesday, Pruitt is expected to declare that the Obama-era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Pruitt said, "The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy." Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power-plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following legal challenges by industry and coal-friendly states. Even so, the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal-fired plants, which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power, as well as state mandates promoting energy conservation. The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change, including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal-burning power plants. The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report from Washington.	False
429	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-04-23	here needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber, ready for the governor's signature," Englebright said Friday.	It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low-income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather, and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state-funded green energy projects.	That support cuts across demographics, including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older; 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers; and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites.	The support breaks down similarly across the state, with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older; 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people; and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers, Cuomo is scrambling to act on long-neglected progressive demands.		Andrew Cuomo Faces A Big Test On Climate Change. He's Already Failed Twice. And on Monday, 19 buses carrying more than 1,500 activists from across the state converged on the state capital to protest Cuomo's failure to do more about climate change in his eight years in office, and make demands that looked identical to Nixon's platform. It was the largest environmental protest against Cuomo since anti-fracking activists staged demonstrations in 2014. To some, Cuomo's status as a climate pariah may be surprising. In 2014, he put a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, for natural gas in the state. In 2015, Al Gore joined the governor as he announced plans to cut the state's greenhouse gases emissions 40 percent by 2030. Last June, Cuomo loudly rejected President Donald Trump's move to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord, ramping up New York's pledge to produce half its electricity from renewables by 2030 and forging a new alliance with the governors of Washington and California to stick to the goals agreed to by former President Barack Obama. "Climate change is a reality, and not to address it is gross negligence by government," said Cuomo, according to a new page on the state website with the banner: "Environment Leadership." But Cuomo's policies still fail to meet even the baseline targets scientists say are needed to make a difference on global warming. His reduction targets focus exclusively on power plants, ignoring the majority of the state's emissions that come from buildings and vehicles. He has no plan to get the state to 100 percent renewable electricity, and has offered little to protect low-income communities and neighborhoods of color that suffer most from the impacts of climate change. The state's pension funds remain invested in fossil fuels, and polluters face no penalties in the form of fines on climate-linked damage or taxes on emissions. As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers, Cuomo is scrambling to act on long-neglected progressive demands. Three weeks ago, over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhouse, the governor made a deal to disband the Independent Democratic Conference, known as the IDC. The group of eight breakaway Democrats in the state Senate caucused with Republicans, guaranteeing a conservative majority in the chamber ― now only one holdout, Brooklyn Democrat Simcha Felder, has left Republicans with a flimsy one-vote majority. Cuomo also signed an executive order last week restoring voting rights to felons on parole and voiced support for legalizing recreational marijuana, a policy Nixon made a platform issue in her campaign. On Friday, almost simultaneous to the release of Nixon's climate platform, Cuomo denied a water quality permit to a new natural gas pipeline environmentalists have protested for months, and announced a new energy efficiency initiative that would account for one-third of the emissions cuts required to meet his 2030 target. But Cuomo's next big test on climate change is one he has already failed twice. For the third time in as many years, the state assembly is slated to vote this week on the latest version of the New York State Climate and Community Protection Act, known as the CCPA. The bill is widely considered the most ambitious and egalitarian climate legislation introduced anywhere in the nation. Heather McGhee, president of the left-leaning think tank Demos, and the economist Robert Reich called it "the most progressive climate-equity policy we've seen." The legislation, first introduced in 2016, calls for 100 percent renewable energy statewide by 2050 and orders state agencies to draft plans to cut greenhouse gas emissions from power plants, buildings and vehicles. It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low-income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather, and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state-funded green energy projects. If enacted, the bill's proponents say it would create more than 100,000 jobs. For Assemblyman Steve Englebright, the Long Island Democrat who first introduced the CCPA, the bill is 20 years overdue. The 71-year-old lawmaker from Setauket, a coastal hamlet on Long Island Sound, started warning about the threat of runaway global warming two decades ago. He has since sponsored several bills to support solar and wind production, at least three of which became laws. In 2016, he became chairman of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Conservation and moved swiftly to draft and introduce the CCPA." here needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber, ready for the governor's signature," Englebright said Friday. "If we can get it onto his desk, he'll have no choice but to sign it." New Yorkers overwhelmingly support environmental regulations even at an economic cost. Seventy-one percent of New Yorkers support expanding renewable energy generation even if it raises electricity prices, compared to 61 percent nationwide, according to Cooperative Congressional Election Study's 2016 survey results analyzed for HuffPost by Data for Progress, a left-leaning think tank. That support cuts across demographics, including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older; 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers; and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites. Sixty-seven percent of New Yorkers support strengthening enforcement of clean air and water regulations even if it costs U.S. jobs, compared to 58 percent nationwide. The support breaks down similarly across the state, with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older; 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people; and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	False
835	Daily Mail	questionable_source	2017-04-10	Top officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations gathered in Rome, Italy today amid growing concerns over the US administration's moves to unravel policies aimed at stalling global warming.	The ministers' agenda had called for discussion of energy security, policies to move away from coal, natural gas routes and supply, sustainable development of electricity sources, alternative fuel scenarios and energy access and investments in Africa.	On March 30, the White House said a decision on whether to withdraw would be made ahead of the G7 summit in Italy in late May.	It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought, flood, rising seas and other climate impacts.	However, the US 'reserved its position' on the text about commitments made by G7 countries under the Paris accord, said Carlo Calenda, the Italian minister for economic development, who chaired the meeting in Rome.		G7 officials fail to agree statement on climate change G7 energy ministers have failed to agree a statement on climate change this afternoon because of 'US reservations', it has emerged. Top officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations gathered in Rome, Italy today amid growing concerns over the US administration's moves to unravel policies aimed at stalling global warming. Environmental activists fear US President Donald Trump is dismantling Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, which aimed at reducing carbon pollution from power plants. Greenpeace was holding a sit-in outside Monday's meeting, calling on officials to maintain their commitments to reduce greenhouse gases under the 2015 Paris Agreement. However, the US 'reserved its position' on the text about commitments made by G7 countries under the Paris accord, said Carlo Calenda, the Italian minister for economic development, who chaired the meeting in Rome. The ministers' agenda had called for discussion of energy security, policies to move away from coal, natural gas routes and supply, sustainable development of electricity sources, alternative fuel scenarios and energy access and investments in Africa. Lacking unanimity, Italy, which currently presides the Group of Seven, decided against proposing the joint statement, Calenda said. The Paris Agreement, endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), is a bedrock of international action against man-made global warming. It vows to cap warming to 'well below' two degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) compared to late 19th-century levels - an effort that scientists say will require massive cuts in carbon emissions from coal and other fossil fuels. It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought, flood, rising seas and other climate impacts. In March, President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back some of the previous Democratic administration's policies on carbon emissions and climate change. Experts have said his plan, which eases emissions limits for coal-fired power plants and scraps more stringent vehicle pollution standards, almost guarantees that the US will fail to meet its commitments under the Paris Agreement. Trump has also said he does not intend to honour promises made by the administration of his predecessor, Barack Obama, to provide financial aid under the Paris accord. However, Trump's team is also deeply divided on whether to withdraw from the pact, according to US media reports. On March 30, the White House said a decision on whether to withdraw would be made ahead of the G7 summit in Italy in late May. Under Obama, the United States, the second biggest carbon polluter, provided critical impetus for the Paris deal by concluding a precursor deal with China, the number one emitter. The Group of Seven, gathering the biggest western democracies, comprises Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States.	False
469	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-08-06	Be the solution, not the problem.	Im working alongside my addministration to formulate a plan of action to swiftly dayliver aids and support to all the suffered comuntitties."	(Right!)	But most readers were stumped — or derisive.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.		Trump Accuses California Of Causing Wildfires By 'Diverting' Water To Pacific As California wildfires claimed their seventh victim, Donald Trump finally weighed in on the tragedy with one of his most confounding tweets ever, blaming California for the blazes because it "diverts" water to the Pacific Ocean. He also blamed the state's "bad environmental laws" — the most protective in the nation — and trees. He called for a "tree clear to stop fire spreading." He failed to express condolences to the families of the victims, thank firefighters, or offer comfort to Californians afraid for their lives, homes and communities. California wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 5, 2018The tweet came just days after the Trump administration moved to scrap tough vehicle emissions standards — initially established by California. The move would clear the way for vehicles to pump an additional 600 million metric tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere by 2030. That's the equivalent of the entire annual emissions of Canada. It's unclear what the president meant by water "diverted" into the Pacific. California allocates water among residents, agricultural and industrial use, and for wetlands and wildlife, including water mandated to protect endangered species. But state waters eventually drain into the ocean. As one tweeter responded: "Water running into the Pacific Ocean is called a river." And firefighters haven't complained of a lack of water for battling the blazes. The tweet could be a muddled indication of support for a GOP battle in Washington for a larger water allocation to farmers, many of them Republican voters, in the drought-stricken state's central valley.  But it's unclear how that would help staunch California fires. The scientific consensus is that fires are becoming more common because of climate change, which Trump once called a Chinese "hoax." Twitter users were stunned the president failed to express concern about people suffering in the fires. But most readers were stumped — or derisive. One responded: "Thanks, genius. Problem solved." As a professor who specializes in wildfire management, there are a lot of things that are broken about how we prepare for & fight wildfires... but it's near impossible to overstate how ridiculous this comment is.  — Eric Kennedy (@ericbkennedy) August 5, 2018I had to come look if this was a real tweet. Ummmmm.... gee..... You seem to know next to nothing about California. Fires are more often fought with flame retardant. Mowing down a forest to keep the forest from burning is on the crazy side. — bree brinkenstein👻❄ (@eebrinkenstein) August 6, 2018Thank you for your heartfelt words of concern and support for the families who have lost everything. — Primrose Lane (@ridiculoustimes) August 6, 2018No you #StableGenius, scientists have been seeing the fingerprints of #climatechange all over these fires and it's making them far worse. Why don't you offer your condolences and then maybe read something aside from the McDonalds menu:  — Miroslava Korenha (@M_Korenha) August 6, 2018By "tree clear", I'm sure you're talking about logging. You're not interested in fire safety. All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer. — Audrey (@AudreyK27) August 6, 2018How about a shout out to the 15,000+ Firefighters who areputting their lives on the line backed with a commitment of support? That is what a real President would do. #Californiafires#California #Calfires — ⚑🌹 Big Ass Mustache🍭 (@XX7xluckydem0n) August 6, 2018JUST IN: The President of the United States blames environmental protection laws for California wildfires, and believes that useful fresh water is being diverted to the Pacific Ocean. It remains unclear if he also believes that the Earth is flat, and the sun revolves around it. — Trump Thoughts (@TrumpDotDotDot) August 5, 2018So... you want to stop trees from catching on fire... by removing the trees...?But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment. You said so! — Andrew (@AndrewSnarks) August 6, 2018I fixed your tweet, boo. Don't worry. I always got your back. "My hart goes out to all those infected by the kalifornia wildfires. Im working alongside my addministration to formulate a plan of action to swiftly dayliver aids and support to all the suffered comuntitties." — Joe Bereta of The Valleyfolk (@joebereta) August 5, 2018So how do you explain the fires in Wyoming, Idaho, Nevada, Arizona, Texas and Montana?Those states aren't exactly models of environmental regulation and yet they are burning also. — Eric Foltz (@EricFoltz) August 6, 2018What are you going to do with the "massive amount of water" that doesn't exist in California? Your destructive environmental policy is what causes climate change. Stop rolling back fuel & auto standards. Fix the EPA, don't dismantle it. Be the solution, not the problem. (Right!) — Zardoz commands that Trump should be impeached! (@mr3film) August 6, 2018	False
431	shareblue	left_bias	2018-10-14	Published with permission of The American Independent.	No matter what, the answer is "most or all of it."	o you believe [climate change] is, at least in part, man-made?"	Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is "contributing" to climate change, "I can't tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity."	He also claimed that "many scientists" would "debate the percentage of what is attributable to man, versus normal fluctuations."		Marco Rubio lies about climate science while Florida drowns After Florida was hit by the devastating Hurricane Michael this week, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) made it clear he would rather lie about climate change, which makes these storms worse, than commit to doing anything to stop it. On Sunday morning's edition of CNN's "State of the Union," host Jake Tapper pressed Rubio about the recent United Nations report on climate change, which predicts global catastrophe if carbon emissions are not cut dramatically in the next 12 years." o you believe [climate change] is, at least in part, man-made?" Tapper asked. Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is "contributing" to climate change, "I can't tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity." He also claimed that "many scientists" would "debate the percentage of what is attributable to man, versus normal fluctuations." No matter what we do with laws — let's say we went to all solar panels and did all that stuff, which is not realistic — this trend [of sea-level rise] would still continue," Rubio said. Instead of clean energy or reducing emissions, Rubio said he is focused on "strategies to mitigate those factors that are going be in place no matter what happens with our energy policy." But, he added, "I'm also not going to destroy our economy." Almost every word out of Rubio's mouth was either a lie or a shameful dodge. There is overwhelming scientific consensus, including from the United States government, that human activity is the main driver of climate change. There is no "debate" among scientists about this. Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet. That's why it makes no sense to quibble, as Rubio does, about exactly what "percentage" of climate change is caused by humans. No matter what, the answer is "most or all of it." And contrary to Rubio's assertions, the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report says that drastic reductions in carbon emissions could, in fact, prevent the most catastrophic effects of climate change. The report says that in order to avoid irreversible global warming, "Global net human-caused emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) would need to fall by about 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030, reaching 'net zero' around 2050." Reducing our carbon emissions will also reduce the effects of climate change. It's as simple as that. But Rubio apparently wants to throw up his hands and claim that since rising seas will drown Florida no matter what, all we can really do is strengthen levies or lift up roads and buildings. Rubio also seems to think that reducing carbon emissions would do more to "destroy our economy" than, say, allowing 1 million Florida homes to flood by the end of this century. Unfortunately, Republicans like Rubio have joined Trump in ignoring science, and doing everything they can to keep pumping as much carbon into the atmosphere as they can get away with. Americans deserve leaders who will do everything they can to prevent the catastrophic effects of climate change, instead of waffling and lying about it like Rubio. Published with permission of The American Independent.	True
90	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-12-19	2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April.	Youth Climate Strike and 18-year-old activist Jamie Margolin.	In California, nearly half of Democratic primary voters said climate should be the top issue for the next president, according to a Los Angeles Times poll published this month.	"Every time I read a Warren climate plan, I am confident that it can take us to a Green New Deal, because I see her thinking about: How do we use all the levers of government?	Yet Warren's shift on climate could position her to be more competitive against Sanders, who has made his own push on the issue over the past month and picked up major endorsements from youth activists.		Elizabeth Warren Zeroes In On Climate Change Ahead Of Next Debate But the Massachusetts senator's campaign is ramping up its focus on the climate crisis ahead of Thursday night's debate in Los Angeles, where wildfires forced more than 40,000 to flee their homes less than two months ago. Last week, Warren unveiled her "Blue New Deal," the first comprehensive campaign proposal to revitalize coastal economies by fortifying ports, spurring new markets for seafood and completely overhauling the offshore energy industry. On Wednesday, she published an op-ed outlining how she'd target fossil fuel companies and reverse President Donald Trump's assault on environmental regulations during her first 100 days in the White House. Then, on Thursday, the campaign announced an endorsement from Rhiana Gunn-Wright, the policy researcher who helped write the Green New Deal resolution Warren co-sponsored in the Senate in February." here is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption," Gunn-Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon. "Every time I read a Warren climate plan, I am confident that it can take us to a Green New Deal, because I see her thinking about: How do we use all the levers of government?"The endorsement comes as Warren is sliding in national polls, which commentators have largely attributed to her apparent wobbling on "Medicare for All." The loss of her brief front-runner status this fall is widely seen as aiding the surge of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) on her left and South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg on her right. Yet Warren's shift on climate could position her to be more competitive against Sanders, who has made his own push on the issue over the past month and picked up major endorsements from youth activists. Warren and Sanders have taken different approaches on climate. Warren has put out more than half a dozen individual plans to spend a combined $3 trillion on solving specific issues like spurring a green manufacturing boom and transitioning the military off fossil fuels. Sanders, by contrast, has released a $16.3 trillion megaproposal for a Green New Deal that includes everything from creating a public option for electricity to spending nearly $15 billion to encourage worker-owned grocery stores. Yet Warren trails Sanders only slightly on climate, according to green groups' rankings. Greenpeace graded her an A and Sanders an A+. On a scale of 200, the Sunrise Movement, the group that pushed the Green New Deal into the mainstream, scored Warren at 168 and Sanders at 183. 350 Action gave both candidates three thumbs up. Sanders has picked up endorsements from the teen-led U.S. Youth Climate Strike and 18-year-old activist Jamie Margolin. He's also backed by Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) and Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.), the star first-term Democrats who proposed the first two major pieces of Green New Deal legislation last month. (Sanders sponsored the Senate version of Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal for Public Housing bill last month). But the starkest contrast on the issue is between the two progressive contenders and their moderate rivals, former Vice President Joe Biden and Buttigieg. Biden's campaign is stacked with gas industry allies. Buttigieg's climate adviser, David Victor, has been called a "fossil fuel shill" for taking research funding from an oil giant and deflecting blame from the industry. It's unclear how much average voters care about a candidate's green credentials when the ability to defeat Trump, who is widely criticized as a climate change denier, is a foremost concern for Democrats and independents who lean left. Climate was the No. 2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April. In California, nearly half of Democratic primary voters said climate should be the top issue for the next president, according to a Los Angeles Times poll published this month. The trend bears out nationally. About 38% of registered voters favored a Green New Deal proposal that spends upward of $10 trillion slashing climate-changing emissions by 2030, according to an August nationwide survey commissioned by the left-leaning think tank Data for Progress. That compared to 32.5% who preferred a $1.7 trillion plan to zero out emissions by 2050 ― more in line with what Biden proposed.	False
739	PBS	left_center_bias	2017-09-21	The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity.	There are some aspects that are really a sure thing.	But there are a lot of other factors that impact vulnerability as well.	RH: The types of mitigation efforts you're talking about are critical.	PS: Has flood insurance basically induced people to take risks that they shouldn't be taking?RH: Quite possibly.	And that has to be a key component of all strategies. <sep> But right now, during this era that we're living in, human activities and the burning of fossil fuels is, by far, the most powerful influence. <sep> Another concern is that, since that home was built, there may have been changes in development in surrounding areas. <sep> Don't they override, or mightn't they override, the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?RH: There are many things that can impact the climate, for sure. <sep> When people were assessing the risk originally and defining the flood zones, they [made estimates] based on 10, 20 years of rainfall data. <sep> 	How will climate change impact future floods and flood insurance? Editor's note: Radley Horton is a professor at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, where he studies climate extremes, impacts and adaptation. He spoke with NewsHour economics correspondent Paul Solman for Thursday's Making Sen$e segment on flood insurance. The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity. Paul Solman: How certain are we, or can we be, that these storms and the flooding associated with them is a function of climate change?Radley Horton: There are many components to these storms. And, depending on what part we're talking about, the certainty differs. There are some aspects that are really a sure thing. For example, we know that sea levels are rising. We know that's going to continue. And even if storms don't change at all, just by virtue of raising that baseline, raising that floor, we're going to see more frequent and more severe coastal flooding. But, when we look at some of the really fundamental aspects of a storm itself, there's more uncertainty. The balance of evidence suggests that the strongest storms will become stronger, with stronger winds, more storm surge, as the planet warms, and as the upper oceans warm. But we can't say it's a sure thing. PS: What about the larger cycles of the planet? Don't they override, or mightn't they override, the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?RH: There are many things that can impact the climate, for sure. But right now, during this era that we're living in, human activities and the burning of fossil fuels is, by far, the most powerful influence. Just since the start of the industrial revolution, we've increased the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by about 40 percent. It's already caused sea levels to rise, close to a foot in many places along the U.S. coast. So that's increasing the risk of these types of storms. WATCH: Less than half of Florida homeowners have flood insurancePS: Can't we mitigate the effects of flooding? I mean, that's what they're doing, raising houses all over the coastline in the United States, and [countries like] Holland. RH: The types of mitigation efforts you're talking about are critical. This is what we often hear referred to as 'resilience' or 'adapting' to a changing climate. And that has to be a key component of all strategies. We absolutely do need to strengthen that infrastructure, whether it's elevating buildings, green infrastructure that can capture some of these excess water. We need those strategies. But you start to wonder, at what point have things changed too much for us to be able to adapt to? For example, if you look at parts of South Florida, as sea levels rise, as the water table rises, no matter how much money you put into trying to build sea walls, that water is just going to make its way up, like Swiss cheese through some of that limestone. You can't hold the water back. PS: So what would you advise somebody who lives in a floodplain? Should they just get out? [Because] many can't, economically, right? Or do they jack up their houses? Is that the best approach?RH: If you live in a flood zone, certainly you should be thinking about climate change. That's one of the dimensions. But there are a lot of other factors that impact vulnerability as well. When people were assessing the risk originally and defining the flood zones, they [made estimates] based on 10, 20 years of rainfall data. [That's] an insufficiently long sample to really estimate the true one-in-a-hundred-year risk. Another concern is that, since that home was built, there may have been changes in development in surrounding areas. If you look at what happened in Houston recently, so much of the natural area had been covered up with pavement. That changes the flood risk. [But when it comes to] the climate change piece, and if we're talking about homes that are in coastal zones, sea level rise is a game changer. PS: When the federal government redraws a map in a place like Pequannock, New Jersey, and includes more and more houses, hundreds more houses, in the floodplain, is the government potentially overreacting?RH: The government is trying to update using the latest available information. More years of weather data are now available, and there've been changes in the land use in some of these regions as well, that impact the path that that water takes. PS: Has flood insurance basically induced people to take risks that they shouldn't be taking?RH: Quite possibly. That's why we need a much deeper discussion, both about those properties that currently are insured, and about uninsured properties, and about properties that, as the climate changes, are going to be moving into newly defined flood zones. [In the future], we could see property values fall, not because water touches or doesn't touch some of these homes, but because of systemic risk, the inability of insurance to cover all these assets, or investors finally realizing that a lot of critical infrastructure isn't going to be fundable.	False
414	talkingpointsmemo	left_bias	2018-04-18	In Parrish, the mayor hopes the material in the train cars is removed before the weather warms up."	"It smells like rotting corpses, or carcasses.	It smells like death."	Rural parts of Alabama are "prime targets" for landfills that accept out-of-state waste, it argued, meaning "that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation."	It also caused the community to become "infested with flies," the complaint states.		Reeking 'Poop Train' Of NYC Human Waste Wreaks Havoc On Alabama Town PARRISH, Ala. (AP) — A stinking trainload of human waste from New York City is stranded in a tiny Alabama town, spreading a stench like a giant backed-up toilet — and the "poop train" is just the latest example of the South being used as a dumping ground for other states' waste. In Parrish, Alabama, population 982, the sludge-hauling train cars have sat idle near the little league ball fields for more than two months, Mayor Heather Hall said. The smell is unbearable, especially around dusk after the atmosphere has become heated, she said." h my goodness, it's just a nightmare here," she said. "It smells like rotting corpses, or carcasses. It smells like death." All kinds of waste have been dumped in Georgia, Alabama and other Southern states in recent years, including toxic coal ash from power plants around the nation. In South Carolina, a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump. In Parrish, townspeople are considering rescheduling children's softball games, or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink. Sherleen Pike, who lives about a half-mile from the railroad track, said she sometimes dabs peppermint oil under her nose because the smell is so bad." ould New York City like for us to send all our poop up there forever?" she said. "They don't want to dump it in their rivers, but I think each state should take care of their own waste." Alabama's inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers' excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging, experts say. Nelson Brooke of the environmental group Black Warrior Riverkeeper, describes Alabama as "kind of an open-door, rubber-stamp permitting place" for landfill operators." t's easy for them to zip into a rural or poor community and set up shop and start making a ton of cash," he said. The poop train's cargo is bound for the Big Sky landfill, about 20 miles (30 kilometers) east of Parrish. The landfill has been accepting the New York sewage sludge since early 2017. Previously, it was transferred from trains to trucks in nearby West Jefferson, but officials there obtained an injunction to keep the sludge out of their town. The sludge "smells of dead rotting animals as well as human waste," West Jefferson's attorney said in a lawsuit against Big Sky Environmental LLC. It also caused the community to become "infested with flies," the complaint states. After West Jefferson went to court, the train stopped in late January in Parrish, which lacks the zoning regulations to block the train cars. It's sat there ever since." e're probably going to look at creating some simple zoning laws for the town of Parrish so we can be sure something like this does not happen again," the Parrish mayor said. Hall said she's optimistic the sludge will all be trucked to the landfill soon. New York City has discontinued shipping it to Alabama for the time being, said Eric Timbers, a city spokesman. Its waste, recovered from the sewage treatment process and often called "biosolids," has been sent out of state partly because the federal government in the late 1980s banned disposal in the Atlantic Ocean. In an earlier trash saga, a barge laden with 3,186 tons (2,890 metric tons) of non-toxic paper and commercial garbage from Long Island and New York City wandered the ocean for months in 1987, seeking a place to dump it after plans by a private developer to turn it into methane gas in North Carolina fell through. It was turned away by North Carolina, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Florida, Mexico, Belize and the Bahamas. Brooke's Black Warrior Riverkeeper group last year opposed continued permits for the Big Sky landfill. Rural parts of Alabama are "prime targets" for landfills that accept out-of-state waste, it argued, meaning "that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation." Big Sky officials did not return multiple email and phone messages from The Associated Press seeking comment. Nationally, the waste and recycling industry generates more than $93 billion in gross revenue annually, said Brandon Wright, a spokesman for the National Waste & Recycling Association. Wright said there are many reasons waste is sometimes transported out of state. There might not be enough landfill space nearby "and the waste has to go somewhere, so it gets transported out of state," he said. Alabama and other Southern states have a long history accepting waste from around the U.S.A former state attorney general once described a giant west Alabama landfill as "America's Pay Toilet." It was among the nation's largest hazardous waste dumps when it opened in 1977. At its peak, the landfill took in nearly 800,000 tons (72,570 metric tons) of hazardous waste annually. Plans to dump coal ash in Southern states have been particularly contentious. Each year, U.S. coal plants produce about 100 million tons (90 metric tons) of coal ash and other waste; more than 4 million tons of it wound up in an Alabama landfill following a 2008 spill in Tennessee. In Parrish, the mayor hopes the material in the train cars is removed before the weather warms up." e're moving into the summer, and the summer in the South is not forgiving when it comes to stuff like this," she said.	True
237	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-04-29	On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for "additional resources" from the international community "to fund the response in the immediate, medium and longer term".	Instead, experts point to other elements making the storm's impact worse which they know are related to climate change."	We managed to send one flight with World Food Programme (WFP) supplies of rice and biscuits, and some non-food items," Mr Abreu told news agency AFP."	Ocha says humanitarian needs "have sky-rocketed, and the humanitarian response will need to rapidly scale up".	And also because of sea-level rise, the resulting flooding is more intense than it would be without human-induced climate change."		Mozambique cyclone: Death toll rises as storm blocks aid The death toll in cyclone-hit northern Mozambique has risen to 38, officials say, as aid workers struggle to reach the worst-affected areas. Cyclone Kenneth struck the southern African nation last week with winds of 220km/h (140mph), flattening villages and damaging thousands more homes. The storm lost strength, but torrential rain was still battering the area on Monday, with more expected. As a result, flights have been grounded - hindering the aid effort. It is predicted the weather system will dump twice as much rainfall as Cyclone Idai, which struck last month, leaving more than 900 dead across Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe. The flood risk was compounded by Kenneth hitting at the end of the rainy season when river levels were already high, the UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs (Ocha) noted. Already, Pemba, the regional capital of Cabo Delgado state, has experienced more than 2m (6.5ft) of rain and flooding. According to Mozambique's National Institute of Disaster Management (INGC), 38 people have been killed by Cyclone Kenneth, while another 35,000 homes have been destroyed or damaged. The privately-owned O Pais website reported five people died after part of a rubbish dump collapsed onto homes in Pemba on Sunday evening. It is unclear if these deaths are recorded in the government total. Ocha says humanitarian needs "have sky-rocketed, and the humanitarian response will need to rapidly scale up". Some 200,000 people are in danger in Pemba alone, Ocha warned. Spokesman Saviano Abreu added that the situation in the northern towns of Macomia and Quissanga was critical, while there were also worries for the cut-off island of Ibo. But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful." We managed to send one flight with World Food Programme (WFP) supplies of rice and biscuits, and some non-food items," Mr Abreu told news agency AFP." But unfortunately the weather conditions are changing too fast and threatening the operation. It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go." This satellite image shows the cyclone over northern Mozambique and Tanzania on Friday night. On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for "additional resources" from the international community "to fund the response in the immediate, medium and longer term". Tropical cyclones in this part of the Indian Ocean are not that rare. However, according to the BBC's Environment Correspondent Matt McGrath, Cyclone Idai was the seventh such major storm of the Indian Ocean season when it struck back in March. That is more than double the average for the time of year. What's even more unusual, however, is the fact Idai and Kenneth hit in such quick succession. According to the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), "there is no record of two storms of such intensity striking Mozambique in the same season". It is especially unusual in the context of the trend which has seen tropical cyclones in the region decrease slightly over the past seven decades. But it is far too early - and too small a sample size - to say whether this frequency is a direct result of climate change. Instead, experts point to other elements making the storm's impact worse which they know are related to climate change." There is absolutely no doubt that when there is a tropical cyclone like this, then because of climate change the rainfall intensities are higher," Dr Friederike Otto, from the University of Oxford, told the BBC in the aftermath of Cyclone Idai." And also because of sea-level rise, the resulting flooding is more intense than it would be without human-induced climate change." Cabo Delgado province is not as densely populated as the area hit by Cyclone Idai, and there is apparently more high ground there. That, in addition to warnings by authorities ahead of the storm, could significantly stem losses compared with Cyclone Idai. But reports said many thousands of homes had been flattened by the winds, and the area has been hit by militant Islamist violence in recent months, which could complicate humanitarian operations. Thousands of people had already fled their homes to seek shelter from violence in camps for displaced people.	True
161	thehill	left_center_bias	2019-08-26	"I'm an environmentalist.	Because that wealth allows us to take care of people."	"I want clean air.	And that's what we're getting."	At the same time, it's very important to me ... we have to maintain this incredible place that we've all built," Trump continued.	A lot of people don't understand that," Trump said, citing his experience filing environmental impact statements for real estate developments. <sep> 	Trump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G-7 climate meeting President Trump Donald John TrumpJoe Kennedy says he's considering Senate run Biden tells supporters after flub: 'I'm not going nuts' Seoul's relations with Pyongyang and Tokyo need a jolt of reality MORE on Monday touted his environmentalist credentials hours after skipping a Group of Seven (G-7) summit meeting focused on climate, oceans and biodiversity. At a closing press conference before departing the summit, Trump was asked whether he still harbors skepticism about climate change. He did not directly answer, saying he is an "environmentalist" but that he is unwilling to sacrifice the country's economic success to protect the environment."I'm an environmentalist. A lot of people don't understand that," Trump said, citing his experience filing environmental impact statements for real estate developments."I think I know more about the environment than most people," he added. "I want clean air. I want clean water. I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with jobs, with pensions, with so many things. And that's what we're getting." At the same time, it's very important to me ... we have to maintain this incredible place that we've all built," Trump continued. The U.S. has "become a much richer country. And that's a good thing, not a bad thing. Because that wealth allows us to take care of people." Earlier Monday, the president skipped a G-7 session focused on climate and sent another administration official in his place. The heads of government of the other six nations that comprise the G-7 were there. During the climate meeting, leaders approved a $20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest, French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean-Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G-7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron: US, France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said. Trump has in the past characterized climate change as a hoax, mocked the idea of global warming by citing winter storms and cast doubt on government reports warning about how the changing environment might adversely affect the economy. His administration has rolled back a number of environmental protections enacted by the Obama administration, and Trump announced shortly after taking office that he would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement that seeks to combat global emissions. The president on Monday cited the expansion of energy exports under his administration and the opening of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as ways he has made the country more prosperous."I'm not going to lose that wealth," he said. "I'm not going to lose that on dreams. On windmills."	False
338	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-07-19	However, not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker, the name of the project.	org.	They submitted their concerns to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy.A second public hearing about Icebreaker will take place Thursday at Cleveland City Council.	"But the planned expansion of offshore wind energy to over 1,000 turbines will have even more major impacts to birds that breed and migrate across Lake Erie, and that must be addressed."	Supporters point out the project would create more than 500 jobs and pump millions into the local economy over the turbines' 25-year lifespan.		Enviros Come Out Against Offshore Wind Turbine In Lake Erie Conservation groups are protesting efforts to build a small offshore wind farm off the coast of Lake Erie, arguing that the project poses a grave risk to the local bird population.A local energy company wants to construct a six-turbine, 20.7 megawatt offshore wind development eight miles from Cleveland in Lake Erie. If completed, it would be the first freshwater offshore wind farm on the continent. Supporters point out the project would create more than 500 jobs and pump millions into the local economy over the turbines' 25-year lifespan. Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation, the company behind the project, also argues it would be a step forward for environmentally friendly energy production. However, not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker, the name of the project. The Black Swamp Bird Observatory and the American Bird Conservancy — two different bird conservation groups — are opposed to the proposal, claiming the turbines would harm the local bird population and that major errors were made during an environmental assessment. (RELATED: Disposal Of Wind Turbines Proving To Be A Major Environmental Concern)"We reject the [environmental assessment's] claim that this wind energy facility would have 'little to no impact'" on birds, Kimberly Kaufman, Black Swamp Bird Observatory's executive director, said in a statement." he six-turbine Icebreaker project poses a larger threat to wildlife than is now indicated in the documents," Kaufman continued. "But the planned expansion of offshore wind energy to over 1,000 turbines will have even more major impacts to birds that breed and migrate across Lake Erie, and that must be addressed." The bird conservancy groups point out that "vast numbers" of migratory birds and bats have been recorded just a few miles from the Great Lakes shorelines, with many flying at the same level of the rotor-swept area of windmills. They submitted their concerns to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy.A second public hearing about Icebreaker will take place Thursday at Cleveland City Council. This is far from the first time bird advocates have lamented over wind turbines. Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines. Offshore wind farms, while also posing a threat to birds, can also harm the local aquatic ecosystem. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
84	vox	left_bias	2019-02-23	They described the injunction request as an "ambitious attempt to throttle important government functions superintending broad swaths of the national economy."	Philip Gregory, one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit, explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately.	e would have preferred to go to trial, submit our extensive evidence, and have the judge require the defendants to come up with a plan, a national climate recovery plan, for how they're going to go about doing this," Gregory said.	With the case currently tied up in appeals, the plaintiffs wanted to make sure the current state of affairs with respect to climate change doesn't get worse as the wheels of justice slowly turn."	"Indeed, Plaintiffs by their present motion are essentially making a bid in this Court for a substitute mini-trial or 'trial lite' — which is premature until the pure issues of law now being briefed in this interlocutory appeal are appropriately resolved as a threshold matter," wrote attorneys for the US Department of Justice.		The kids suing the government over climate change want to halt fossil fuel extraction  The attorneys representing young people who are suing the federal government in a major climate change lawsuit recently took the unusual step of filing an injunction to stop all new leases for fossil fuel production. If the injunction is granted, it would lead to a nationwide moratorium on new fossil fuel permitting and leasing on federal lands and waters until the lawsuit is resolved. No small matter. However, existing mining and drilling projects would still proceed. The Juliana v. United States lawsuit, filed by 21 young plaintiffs, is currently going through pre-trial appeals at the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The suit alleges that not only did the federal government fail to act to limit climate change, it profited off of selling coal, oil, and gas rights. The government encouraged mining and drilling while knowing full well the hazards caused by burning these fuels, namely climate change. In so doing, the government has deprived the plaintiffs — the youngest is 11 years old — the right to a safe and stable climate system. The lawsuit was first filed in 2015 but has proceeded in starts and stops. At one point, the Supreme Court stepped in to pause the case days before the trial before allowing it to go ahead. An appeals court has now stepped in to consider the government's motion to dismiss the case. Then on February 7, the plaintiffs filed their injunction against new fossil fuel extraction on government territory. Philip Gregory, one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit, explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately. With the case currently tied up in appeals, the plaintiffs wanted to make sure the current state of affairs with respect to climate change doesn't get worse as the wheels of justice slowly turn." e would have preferred to go to trial, submit our extensive evidence, and have the judge require the defendants to come up with a plan, a national climate recovery plan, for how they're going to go about doing this," Gregory said. As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request, "This injunction is urgently needed because, despite long-standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs, Defendants' ongoing development of the fossil fuel-based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs' ability to obtain the full remedy in their case." Numerous experts including retired Navy Vice Admiral Lee Gunn, economist Joseph Stiglitz, and climate scientist Eric Rignot have also filed amicus briefs supporting the injunction against new federal fossil fuel development. In response, the federal government argued this week that the injunction maneuver is a ploy to bypass proper legal proceedings. "Indeed, Plaintiffs by their present motion are essentially making a bid in this Court for a substitute mini-trial or 'trial lite' — which is premature until the pure issues of law now being briefed in this interlocutory appeal are appropriately resolved as a threshold matter," wrote attorneys for the US Department of Justice. They described the injunction request as an "ambitious attempt to throttle important government functions superintending broad swaths of the national economy." The government also noted that the Juliana lawsuit was filed more than three years ago but the plaintiffs hadn't asked to block fossil fuel leasing until now, which undermines the plaintiffs' argument that without immediate action, they would suffer irreparable harm. However, Gregory noted that the government didn't object to any of the evidence presented in the plaintiff's injunction request, nor did it present any new evidence for its request to deny the request. "Because there is no contrary evidence, then we are very optimistic that this injunction will go through," Gregory said. The Juliana v. United States is just one of more than a dozen climate change lawsuits underway in the US right now. Besides suing the government, several counties and cities are seeking damages from coal, oil, and gas companies for contributing to climate change, which in turn is posing a public nuisance to these jurisdictions. Legal experts say that these lawsuits are long shots and they're testing the limits of what existing jurisprudence covers. But if they succeed, they could set critical precedents, lead to billion-dollar payouts, and radically reshape the effort to limit global warming.	False
375	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-08-06	California Gov.	He's likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt, an endangered fish.	What's not a clear link to wildfires, however, is Trump's referral to California water supplies being diverted into the ocean.	Jerry Brown, a Democrat, blamed man-made global warming for the state's rash of intense fires in the last couple of years, however, wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire-prone areas.	Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year.		Trump Says 'Bad Environmental Laws' Made Deadly California Wildfires Even Worse President Donald Trump blamed "bad environmental laws" for making wildfires spreading across California "much worse," in a Sunday tweet. Trump wrote these laws "aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized," which is instead "being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading!"Persistent heat, dry condition and winds have fueled several major wildfires across California, the biggest of which is the Carr Fire that's scorched more than 140,000 acres and killed seven people. (RELATED: NYT Claims 'Global Greening' From CO2 Is 'Terrible,' Gets Owned)State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding, California. California Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, blamed man-made global warming for the state's rash of intense fires in the last couple of years, however, wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire-prone areas. That's likely what Trump is referring to when he tweeted "[m]ust also tree clear to stop fire spreading!" Thinning of trees and removing of dead vegetation and brush can help mitigate wildfires. What's not a clear link to wildfires, however, is Trump's referral to California water supplies being diverted into the ocean. He's likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt, an endangered fish. Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses, including agriculture. Those concerns were magnified during the recent multi-year drought, and recent population surveys show fresh water diversion has not been enough to keep smelt populations from declining. However, it's unclear how diverting water into the Pacific Ocean affects wildfires in California. Trump also lambasted policies forcing river water to be diverted during the 2016 campaign." s there a drought?" Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year. "No, we have plenty of water," adding "[w]e shove it out to sea." Trump approved disaster declarations for the Carr Fire, making it easier for state and federal officials to share resources and coordinate a response.	False
882	RT	questionable_source	2017-08-23	That] has all kind of consequences both locally for this region, for the animals and the people who live here, as well as globally," Max Holmes, a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska, told the New York Times.	As global temperatures rise, scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaska's permafrost.	inus 3 is not that far from zero," Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times.	He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate, near-surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century.	n order to know how much is lost, you have to know how much is there," Sue Natali, a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times.		Alaska's thawing permafrost could be gone in decades – study The permafrost that covers great swaths of Siberia, northern Canada, Alaska and Greenland is warming twice as fast as other parts of the planet and could be gone by midcentury, causing more warming and releasing gigatonnes of carbon dioxide and methane." That] has all kind of consequences both locally for this region, for the animals and the people who live here, as well as globally," Max Holmes, a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska, told the New York Times. As global temperatures rise, scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaska's permafrost. In geology, permafrost is a thick subsurface layer of soil that remains frozen throughout the year. Located in high latitudes, it covers about 24 percent of the land surface in the northern hemisphere, and can be up to 1km thick. Some of the permafrost dates back to the last Ice Age. Most of this area is found in Siberia, northern Canada, Alaska and Greenland. Permafrost is thought to contain about twice as much carbon dioxide and methane as is currently in the atmosphere. When permafrost melts, microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide, causing even more warming. Scientists estimate the thawing could contribute as much as 1.7F (1C) to global warming over the next several centuries, regardless of what nations do to reduce emissions from burning fossil fuels and other activities. Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores, sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape, and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released." n order to know how much is lost, you have to know how much is there," Sue Natali, a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times. Vladimir Romanovsky, a permafrost researcher with the University of Alaska, Fairbanks said the temperatures at a depth of 65ft have risen to 5.5F (-3C) over decades." inus 3 is not that far from zero," Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times. He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate, near-surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century. In 2013, the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) projected that temperature increases in Alaska and northern Russia could reduce permafrost by between 37 and 87 percent by the end of this century. If that occurs, it could potentially leak 1,700 gigatonnes of carbon and methane – twice what is already in the atmosphere.A global temperature rise of 2.7F (1.5C) above current levels would be enough to start the thawing of the permafrost in Siberia, according to scientists from the earth sciences depart at Oxford University in a report published in Science Express in 2016.	False
396	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-08-14	They don't want to be informed.	What makes Zinke's statements during his trip to California so astonishing is that they come two days after he stressed the importance of being informed and open-minded.	"This has to do with active forest management."	It doesn't matter whether you believe or don't believe in climate change," he said during another interview this weekend while touring neighborhoods torched by the deadly Carr fire west of Redding, California.	The left, he said, is "angry," "intolerant" and "uninformed" when it comes to public lands and environmental issues ― and they aren't interested in debate, one of the things that have "made America great."		It's Official: Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke Is An Ostrich About Wildfires At a conservative event in Steamboat Springs, Colorado, on Friday, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke pounced on the opportunity to blast his critics, including the "environmental terrorists" he blames for wildfires in the West. The left, he said, is "angry," "intolerant" and "uninformed" when it comes to public lands and environmental issues ― and they aren't interested in debate, one of the things that have "made America great." They don't want to be informed. They don't want to do the research," Zinke said. "They go to the same little trough of Kool-Aid every day. And they don't want to expand their paradigm and look at the actual facts." On Sunday, Zinke traveled to fire-ravaged California, where he made it abundantly clear that the Trump administration has no interest in the scientific research showing climate change is contributing to the extreme fires raging across the West or that the effect on wildfires is expected to grow as climate change drives up global temperatures and fuels droughts." 've heard the climate change argument back and forth. This has nothing to do with climate change," he told KCRA-TV in Sacramento. "This has to do with active forest management." It doesn't matter whether you believe or don't believe in climate change," he said during another interview this weekend while touring neighborhoods torched by the deadly Carr fire west of Redding, California. To be fair, Zinke acknowledged that "there's no doubt the [fire] season is getting longer, the temperatures are getting hotter," as The Sacramento Bee reported. But he didn't dwell on those factors and instead argued for more logging and thinning of forests while taking another swing at environmental groups that he says stand in the way of such efforts. It's true that the accumulation of fuel is among the factors that have contributed to increased fire activity, and California is taking additional steps to improve forest health. But a 2016 study found that human-caused climate change had doubled the amount of land that burned in Western forests over a 30-year period by significantly drying out vegetation. Thirteen of the state's 20 most-destructive fires on record have occurred since 2003. Coming in at No. 6 is the Carr fire, which has burned more than 200,000 acres, destroyed 1,599 structures and killed seven people, including three firefighters. Additionally, 15 of the state's 20 largest fires have occurred since 2002. The Mendocino Complex fire, which has burned nearly 300,000 acres north of Santa Rosa, surpassed last year's Thomas fire as the largest wildfire in California's history. California is already way ahead of where it was at this time last year, both in terms of the number of fires fought and the acreage burned. That a member of President Donald Trump's Cabinet would dismiss the link between climate change and wildfire is par for the course. What makes Zinke's statements during his trip to California so astonishing is that they come two days after he stressed the importance of being informed and open-minded. As HuffPost reported last week, the administration appears to be using the disaster in California as an opportunity to push partisan policy. While Zinke works the logging angle, Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross have attempted to connect devastating California wildfires to a longstanding fight between farmers and environmentalists over water resources. The move came just two days after California fire officials dismissed Trump's claims that the fires have been exacerbated by a water shortage resulting from "bad environmental laws." As they see it, the problem is the one that Zinke and other administration officials refuse to acknowledge.	False
650	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-08-14	That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible."	t is something we will have to watch closely," Bingham said.	"We had not expected to find anything like that number.	e were amazed," Bingham said.	The results were then compared with satellite and database records and geological information from other aerial surveys.		Scientists discover 91 volcanoes below Antarctic ice sheet... Scientists have uncovered the largest volcanic region on Earth – two kilometres below the surface of the vast ice sheet that covers west Antarctica. The project, by Edinburgh University researchers, has revealed almost 100 volcanoes – with the highest as tall as the Eiger, which stands at almost 4,000 metres in Switzerland. Geologists say this huge region is likely to dwarf that of east Africa's volcanic ridge, currently rated the densest concentration of volcanoes in the world. And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences, they have warned. "If one of these volcanoes were to erupt it could further destabilise west Antarctica's ice sheets," said glacier expert Robert Bingham, one of the paper's authors. "Anything that causes the melting of ice – which an eruption certainly would – is likely to speed up the flow of ice into the sea." he big question is: how active are these volcanoes? That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible." The Edinburgh volcano survey, reported in the Geological Society's special publications series, involved studying the underside of the west Antarctica ice sheet for hidden peaks of basalt rock similar to those produced by the region's other volcanoes. Their tips actually lie above the ice and have been spotted by polar explorers over the past century. But how many lie below the ice? This question was originally asked by the team's youngest member, Max Van Wyk de Vries, an undergraduate at the university's school of geosciences and a self-confessed volcano fanatic. He set up the project with the help of Bingham. Their study involved analysing measurements made by previous surveys, which involved the use of ice-penetrating radar, carried either by planes or land vehicles, to survey strips of the west Antarctic ice. The results were then compared with satellite and database records and geological information from other aerial surveys. "Essentially, we were looking for evidence of volcanic cones sticking up into the ice," Bingham said. After the team had collated the results, it reported a staggering 91 previously unknown volcanoes, adding to the 47 others that had been discovered over the previous century of exploring the region. These newly discovered volcanoes range in height from 100 to 3,850 metres. All are covered in ice, which sometimes lies in layers that are more than 4km thick in the region. These active peaks are concentrated in a region known as the west Antarctic rift system, which stretches 3,500km from Antarctica's Ross ice shelf to the Antarctic peninsula." e were amazed," Bingham said. "We had not expected to find anything like that number. We have almost trebled the number of volcanoes known to exist in west Antarctica. We also suspect there are even more on the bed of the sea that lies under the Ross ice shelf, so that I think it is very likely this region will turn out to be the densest region of volcanoes in the world, greater even than east Africa, where mounts Nyiragongo, Kilimanjaro, Longonot and all the other active volcanoes are concentrated." The discovery is particularly important because the activity of these volcanoes could have crucial implications for the rest of the planet. If one erupts, it could further destabilise some of the region's ice sheets, which have already been affected by global warming. Meltwater outflows into the Antarctic ocean could trigger sea level rises. "We just don't know about how active these volcanoes have been in the past," Bingham said. However, he pointed to one alarming trend: "The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering – after the end of the last ice age. These places include Iceland and Alaska." heory suggests that this is occurring because, without ice sheets on top of them, there is a release of pressure on the regions' volcanoes and they become more active." And this could happen in west Antarctica, where significant warming in the region caused by climate change has begun to affect its ice sheets. If they are reduced significantly, this could release pressure on the volcanoes that lie below and lead to eruptions that could further destabilise the ice sheets and enhance sea level rises that are already affecting our oceans." t is something we will have to watch closely," Bingham said.	False
430	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-11-13	twitter.	pic.	"We can embrace the energy of activism to move our party's goals forward."	com/mw6dKSxPVj — 350 dot org (@350) November 13, 2018Members of the Sunrise Movement, responding to Pelosi's support in their own statement on Twitter, said they welcomed her endorsement but added that "words aren't enough."	"We welcome the presence of these activists, and we strongly urge the Capitol Police to allow them to continue to organize and participate in our democracy."		Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Attends Climate Change Protest During Orientation The progressive Democratic newcomer from New York joined more than 100 environmental youth activists on Tuesday for a sit-in inside House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi's Capitol Hill office to encourage a deal to transition to a 100 percent renewable energy-based economy to fight climate change. The demonstration took place the same day that new members of Congress, including Ocasio-Cortez, arrived for orientation." hey asked me to join them, and I did," Ocasio-Cortez tweeted of her involvement with members of the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats who visited several elected officials' offices in the building. "We can embrace the energy of activism to move our party's goals forward." Pelosi's office, in a statement shared by Ocasio-Cortez on Twitter, expressed support for the activists and said that she has recommended reinstating the Select Committee on Climate Change, a special climate change committee that was dissolved by Republicans in 2011." ouse Democrats ran on and won on our bold campaign for a $1 trillion investment in our infrastructure that will make our communities more resilient to the climate crisis, while creating 16 million new good-paying jobs across the country," Pelosi's statement read. "We welcome the presence of these activists, and we strongly urge the Capitol Police to allow them to continue to organize and participate in our democracy." California is burning. Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy. We're running out of time to act. But we're going to win. We'll pass a #GreenNewDeal & win the solutions we need. We'll win because we have a movement behind us. And together, we're unstoppable. pic. twitter. com/mw6dKSxPVj — 350 dot org (@350) November 13, 2018Members of the Sunrise Movement, responding to Pelosi's support in their own statement on Twitter, said they welcomed her endorsement but added that "words aren't enough." The group urged her to "step aside" if she is unable to mandate such a plan. Ocasio-Cortez added that she supports Pelosi reinstating the Select Committee and highlighted the activists' requests that the committee draft a Green New Deal calling for 100 percent renewable energy and a commitment from the committee's appointed members that they won't accept funding from the fossil fuel industry.	False
515	usatoday	left_center_bias	2018-04-16	The president's primary aim, the directive states, is "promoting domestic manufacturing and job creation."	Another would permit the EPA to discount many studies used as the basis for air quality standards for a lack of "transparency" because those analyses use individual health data that can't be disclosed because they're protected under federal privacy laws."	The memo encourages reliance on air pollution modeling for deregulatory purposes or permits desired by industry, but not for regulatory purposes that would better protect Americans," he said.	One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an express priority, said John Walke, director of the Natural Resources Defense Council's clean air program."	The order encourages federal and state regulators to speed up reviews of air quality permits, echoing Trump's call for quicker approvals involving infrastructure projects such as bridges, roads and pipelines.		President Trump directs EPA to ease air quality rules he says suffocates industry WASHINGTON — President Trump's latest effort to boost the nation's manufacturing sector is an industry-friendly rewrite of air quality regulations he says pose "unnecessary and outdated barriers to growth." But environmental advocates warn it would be another damaging step by an administration obsessed with deregulation at the expense of hard-fought public health protections. The proposed loosening of air quality standards came in the form of a directive Trump issued Thursday instructing the EPA to work with states that have metro areas which failed to attain clean air standards. The president's primary aim, the directive states, is "promoting domestic manufacturing and job creation." Dozens of communities across the country fail to meet Clean Air Act standards for at least one of six key pollutants — ground-level ozone (smog), particulate matter (soot or smoke), carbon monoxide, lead, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen dioxide — according to the EPA. Building or expanding major projects, such as highways and manufacturing plants, in these "non-attainment" areas requires extra time and cost to make sure the increased industrial activity won't worsen air quality. And states with non-attainment areas have to file plans with the EPA to show how they're confronting the problem, a review process that can take years. Trump's directive orders the EPA to work with states to expedite those approvals and instructs the agency to consider whether the current process "should be revised or rescinded ... to provide states with additional implementation flexibility." These actions are intended to ensure that EPA carries out its core missions of protecting the environment and improving air quality in accord with statutory requirements, while reducing unnecessary impediments to new manufacturing and business expansion essential for a growing economy," the president said in a statement accompanying the order. Read More: Assailed as tool of industry, EPA administrator Pruitt affirms importance of scienceRead More: Exclusive: EPA's Pruitt vows to continue rolling back rules despite alarming climate reportRead More: Scott Pruitt on a mission to change the climate of the EPAThe directive comes at a time when the EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has been under increasing bipartisan fire on Capitol Hill for a number of management missteps, spending decisions and potential ethical conflicts. The president has staunchly defended Pruitt, largely because Trump and his conservative allies applaud how aggressively the EPA is rolling back regulations and promoting economic growth. In the 14 months he's been the nation's top environmental rulemaker, the former Oklahoma attorney general who sued the EPA more than a dozen times has rolled back the Clean Power Plan, rescinded the Waters of the U.S. rule, and helped convince the president to back out of the Paris Accord on climate change, among a number of changes. And Trump's vow to bring back coal, important in mining states like West Virginia where he just visited, have been buoyed by Pruitt's actions. The air quality directive doesn't instruct the EPA to revise the air quality standards themselves. Instead, environmental advocates worry the administration would try to circumvent clean air standards without congressional say-so by pursuing steps that could make it easier for industry to meet current regulations without being required to improve the quality of the air Americans beathe every day. One of those steps, they say, would allow states to expand the size of non-attainment areas to include areas with cleaner air so that overall pollutant levels meet environmental standards. Another would permit the EPA to discount many studies used as the basis for air quality standards for a lack of "transparency" because those analyses use individual health data that can't be disclosed because they're protected under federal privacy laws." This is a backhanded way of weakening the most important and sacrosanct provision of the clean Air Act and he's no doing it through any normal legislative process," said Bill Becker, former executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies which represents state regulators. Trump's action empowers Pruitt "to ignore science and data" in determining compliance with air quality standards, said Sara Jordan, Legislative Representative for the League of Conservation Voters." By directing the EPA to reconsider all of its past guidance from the (federal air quality) program, Trump is threatening clean air protections for cities across the country," she said. "This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters." Industry representatives say the maze of federal rules governing a slew of environmental and health standards are unnecessary and burdensome. If states had more wiggle room in how they measure and apply air quality standards, thousands of jobs could be created, they said." ver the years, regulations on air quality have become so complicated that it can be nearly impossible for manufacturers to secure the needed approvals just to open a new facility," said Ross Eisenberg, Vice President for Energy and Resources Policy with the National Association of Manufacturers. EPA officials point out that much progress has been made on air quality in recent decades.  Levels of Nitrogen Dioxide (NOx), for example, have dropped by more than 50 percent since 2000. There are no monitors in the U.S. currently measuring pollution above those standards. The order encourages federal and state regulators to speed up reviews of air quality permits, echoing Trump's call for quicker approvals involving infrastructure projects such as bridges, roads and pipelines. But Becker said that comes off as a hollow demand considering the president's budget calls for significant cuts in EPA personnel and state environmental grants that help pay for such reviews. One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an express priority, said John Walke, director of the Natural Resources Defense Council's clean air program." The memo encourages reliance on air pollution modeling for deregulatory purposes or permits desired by industry, but not for regulatory purposes that would better protect Americans," he said.	False
125	politicususa	left_bias	2019-05-14	It's the speed.	The rate of global warming, if it was even detectable at this scale with about .1 degrees celsius every thousand or maybe even every 10,000 years.	This would be dT, dt where capital "T," is temperature and, and the lower case is time, or congressman's staff if out there, that's the problem.	The temperature is rising quickly.	It's a fact.		Bill Nye Lights Up GOP Congressman Who Pretends Not To Understand Climate Change Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer, but he doesn't understand climate change. And the guy that I saw the other day, if I may take a moment — was congressman Thomas Massey from Kentucky, and he is an electrical engineer. He says on his website he claims to be an inventor and he acted as though he cannot grasp this he focused on the idea that 800,000 years ago there was a higher level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere than there is today, and how do we know that? By looking at the ice cores or the ancient atmospheres in the ancient ice. I presume you don't watch MSNBC…A member of his staff might. That's what I'm hoping for. I'm hoping for. So congressman or the congressman's staff, here's the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off that's been debunked. No, it hasn't been debunked. It's a fact. If you're really an electrical engineer, here's the problem. The rate of global warming, if it was even detectable at this scale with about .1 degrees celsius every thousand or maybe even every 10,000 years. Now it's that .1 degree Celsius every decade. So congressman, it's like this in calculus terms. The rate of temperature getting bigger is very high. This would be dT, dt where capital "T," is temperature and, and the lower case is time, or congressman's staff if out there, that's the problem. This looks like an exaggerated hockey stick because it is. It's the speed. The Trump administration recently called a science a "Democrat thing," so no one should expect the Republican Party to get won over into believing facts again, but Bill Nye laid it all out nice and easy. The temperature is rising quickly. It is a race against time, and the longer that Republicans deny and delay, the worse it will be for our planet, our people, and our future. For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	False
810	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-08-07	In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms, Moebius-Clune wrote that references to economic growth, emerging business opportunities in the rural US, agro-tourism and "improved aesthetics" should be "tolerated if not appreciated by all".	Namely, that priority is climate change.	Instead of "climate change adaption", staff are asked to use "resilience to weather extremes".	Some staff weren't enamored with the new regime, with one employee stating on an email on 5 July that "we would prefer to keep the language as is" and stressing the need to maintain the "scientific integrity of the work".	The primary cause of human-driven climate change is also targeted, with the term "reduce greenhouse gases" blacklisted in favor of "build soil organic matter, increase nutrient use efficiency".	On 16 February, a staffer named Tim Hafner write to Bramblett: "I would like to know correct terms I should use instead of climate changes and anything to do with carbon ... <sep> Please visit with your staff and make them aware of this shift in perspective within the executive branch." <sep> Other emails show the often agonized discussions between staff unsure of what is forbidden. <sep> A colleague advises that the issue be determined in a phone call. <sep> "Climate change" is in the "avoid" category, to be replaced by "weather extremes". <sep> 	US federal department is censoring use of term 'climate change', emails reveal Staff at the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) have been told to avoid using the term climate change in their work, with the officials instructed to reference "weather extremes" instead.A series of emails obtained by the Guardian between staff at the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), a USDA unit that oversees farmers' land conservation, show that the incoming Trump administration has had a stark impact on the language used by some federal employees around climate change.A missive from Bianca Moebius-Clune, director of soil health, lists terms that should be avoided by staff and those that should replace them. "Climate change" is in the "avoid" category, to be replaced by "weather extremes". Instead of "climate change adaption", staff are asked to use "resilience to weather extremes". The primary cause of human-driven climate change is also targeted, with the term "reduce greenhouse gases" blacklisted in favor of "build soil organic matter, increase nutrient use efficiency". Meanwhile, "sequester carbon" is ruled out and replaced by "build soil organic matter". In her email to staff, dated 16 February this year, Moebius-Clune said the new language was given to her staff and suggests it be passed on. She writes that "we won't change the modeling, just how we talk about it – there are a lot of benefits to putting carbon back in the sail [sic], climate mitigation is just one of them", and that a colleague from USDA's public affairs team gave advice to "tamp down on discretionary messaging right now". In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms, Moebius-Clune wrote that references to economic growth, emerging business opportunities in the rural US, agro-tourism and "improved aesthetics" should be "tolerated if not appreciated by all". In a separate email to senior employees on 24 January, just days after Trump's inauguration, Jimmy Bramblett, deputy chief for programs at the NRCS, said: "It has become clear one of the previous administration's priority is not consistent with that of the incoming administration. Namely, that priority is climate change. Please visit with your staff and make them aware of this shift in perspective within the executive branch." Bramblett added that "prudence" should be used when discussing greenhouse gases and said the agency's work on air quality regarding these gases could be discontinued. Other emails show the often agonized discussions between staff unsure of what is forbidden. On 16 February, a staffer named Tim Hafner write to Bramblett: "I would like to know correct terms I should use instead of climate changes and anything to do with carbon ... I want to ensure to incorporate correct terminology that the agency has approved to use." On 5 April, Suzanne Baker, a New York-based NRCS employee, emailed a query as to whether staff are "allowed to publish work from outside the USDA that use 'climate change'". A colleague advises that the issue be determined in a phone call. Some staff weren't enamored with the new regime, with one employee stating on an email on 5 July that "we would prefer to keep the language as is" and stressing the need to maintain the "scientific integrity of the work". In a statement, USDA said that on 23 January it had issued "interim operating procedures outlining procedures to ensure the new policy team has an opportunity to review policy-related statements, legislation, budgets and regulations prior to issuance". The statement added: "This guidance, similar to procedures issued by previous administrations, was misinterpreted by some to cover data and scientific publications. This was never the case and USDA interim procedures will allow complete, objective information for the new policy staff reviewing policy decisions." Kaveh Sadeghzadeh of the Natural Resources Conservation Service added that his organisation "has not received direction from USDA or the administration to modify its communications on climate change or any other topic". Trump has repeatedly questioned the veracity of climate change research, infamously suggesting that it is part of an elaborate Chinese hoax. The president has started the process of withdrawing the US from the Paris climate agreement, has instructed the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to scrap or amend various regulations aimed at cutting greenhouse gases, and has moved to open up more public land and waters to fossil fuel activity. The nomenclature of the federal government has also shifted as these new priorities have taken hold. Mentions of the dangers of climate change have been removed from the websites of the White House and the Department of the Interior, while the EPA scrapped its entire online climate section in April pending a review that will be "updating language to reflect the approach of new leadership"." hese records reveal Trump's active censorship of science in the name of his political agenda," said Meg Townsend, open government attorney at the Center for Biological Diversity." o think that federal agency staff who report about the air, water and soil that sustains the health of our nation must conform their reporting with the Trump administration's anti-science rhetoric is appalling and dangerous for America and the greater global community." The Center for Biological Diversity is currently suing several government agencies, including the EPA and state department, to force them to release information on the "censoring" of climate change verbiage. While some of the changes to government websites may have occurred anyway, the emails from within the USDA are the clearest indication yet that staff have been instructed to steer clear of acknowledging climate change or its myriad consequences. US agriculture is a major source of heat-trapping gases, with 15% of the country's emissions deriving from farming practices. A USDA plan to address the "far reaching" impacts of climate change is still online. However, Sam Clovis, Trump's nomination to be the USDA's chief scientist, has labeled climate research "junk science". Last week it was revealed that Clovis, who is not a scientist, once ran a blog where he called progressives "race traders and race 'traitors'" and likened Barack Obama to a "communist".	False
138	vox	left_bias	2019-11-06	Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top-tier concern.	So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	It's part of a national campaign from environmental activists to push public officials to say no to money from the coal, oil, and natural gas industries.	Ahead of the election, polls showed that more than 60 percent of Virginians wanted their government to do more about climate change.	But the test of these election promises will be in how they're implemented.		Virginia Democrats campaigned on their Green New Deal and fighting climate change. And won. Virginia's efforts to fight climate change got a big boost after Tuesday's election, with Democrats flipping both chambers of the state's General Assembly. As part of its pre-election platform, Virginia's Democratic party unanimously endorsed two major progressive environmental resolutions: They voted in favor of setting a target of net-zero carbon emissions for the state by 2050 and they endorsed the Green New Deal Virginia. Like the Green New Deal resolution introduced in the US Congress, Virginia's version aims to move the state to 100 percent renewable energy while pursuing social welfare programs like job retraining for workers who would lose their jobs in the transition. Climate change isn't a far-off issue for Virginians, so it's not surprising that some were thinking about it at the ballot box. Many are already starting to feel the effects of the melting ice and warming oceans that result from rising average temperatures. The Hampton Roads region, for example, is facing the highest rate of sea-level rise on the East Coast. Rising waters are worsening the impacts of tropical storms that strike the state and will cost Virginia cities billions of dollars in losses in the coming decades. That's why Tuesday's results are a big deal for Virginia voters who want the state to do more to limit climate change. The new Democratic legislative majority could also allow Gov. Ralph Northam to fulfill his long-thwarted ambition of bringing Virginia into the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), a compact among nine East Coast states to cap and trade greenhouse gas emissions credits. Northam had failed to get the Republican-led legislature on board with his climate goals, but he signed an executive order in September mandating that Virginia generate 30 percent of its electricity from renewables by 2030 and generate all power from non-carbon-emitting sources by 2050. Joining RGGI would be a key way to finance this transition toward cleaner energy with revenue coming from auctioning off carbon credits. Virginia's Democratic Party also said that it would refuse contributions from energy providers like Dominion Energy and Appalachian Power that generate power from fossil fuels. It's part of a national campaign from environmental activists to push public officials to say no to money from the coal, oil, and natural gas industries. Yet in many key races, Democrats still out-raised their Republican opponents. But the test of these election promises will be in how they're implemented. Virginia gets 53 percent of its electricity from natural gas and 10 percent from coal, so it's a long uphill walk to zero emissions. Virginia is just the latest state where limiting climate change has proved to be a winning issueThe election results also show (yet again) that Democrats can campaign and win on aggressive action on climate change. And they illustrate that despite high-profile criticism from Republicans, the Green New Deal is proving to be popular with many voters, even in local elections. Ahead of the election, polls showed that more than 60 percent of Virginians wanted their government to do more about climate change. Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top-tier concern. Candidates like Joshua Cole, who won the election for Virginia's 28th House District, campaigned on environmental action, including upgrading infrastructure to make it more resilient and deploying clean energy. With Congress deadlocked and President Donald Trump pulling the United States out of the Paris climate agreement, Virginia's election also highlights how the biggest opportunities to curb greenhouse gases are occurring at the state level. States like Oregon, New Mexico, Colorado, and Nevada are already locking in more stringent limits on greenhouse gases and setting higher targets for deploying clean energy. And almost every Democrat running for the White House in 2020 wants to ramp up action on climate change should any of them take office. So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	False
188	usatoday	left_center_bias	2019-08-28	I'm concerned because it affects their health."	he kids are affected the most.	But for now, more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear.	But it's not.	"Not just our children."		Amazon fires: Respiratory problems spike, kids affected the most PORTO VELHO, Brazil – Lingering smoke in the Amazon caused concern Tuesday among Brazilians who say that respiratory problems – particularly among children and the elderly – have increased as fires in the region rage." he kids are affected the most. They're coughing a lot," said Elane Diaz, a nurse in the Rondonia state capital of Porto Velho, as she waited for a doctor's appointment at the city's 9 of July hospital with her 5-year-old-son Eduardo. "They have problems breathing. I'm concerned because it affects their health." The number of people treated for respiratory issues increased sharply in recent days at the local Cosme e Damia Children's hospital." his period has been very tough. The dry weather and the smoke causes many problems on children, such as pneumonia, coughing and secretion," Daniel Pires, a pediatrician and the hospital's adjunct-director told the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper. "From Aug. 1 to Aug. 10, the median (number) of cases was about 120 to 130 children with respiratory problems. From Aug. 11 to (Aug. 20) it went up to 280 cases." Amazon fires: What would the Earth be like without the Amazon rainforest?Growing fears over the health impacts are emerging as the number of fires in Brazil surges, with more than 77,000 documented by the country's National Space Research Institute in the last year. About half of the fires occurred in the Amazon region, with most in the past month. But as breathing-related ailments appear to be on the rise, attention to the issue has largely been overshadowed by growing acrimony between Brazil and European countries seeking to help fight Amazon fires and protect a region seen as vital to the health of the planet. At a summit in France this week, G-7 nations pledged to help fight the flames and protect the rainforest by offering $20 million, in addition to a separate $12 million from Britain and $11 million from Canada. But Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, a far-right climate skeptic who took office this year with a promise to boost development in Latin America's biggest economy, questioned whether offers of international aid mask a plot to exploit the Amazon's resources and weaken Brazilian growth. On Tuesday, he said that his French counterpart President Emmanuel Macron had called him a liar and would have to apologize before Brazil considers accepting rainforest aid. Macron has to retract those comments "and then we can speak," Bolsonaro said. In a video message, Brazilian novelist Paulo Coelho offered an apology to France for what he called Bolsonaro's "hysteria," saying the Brazilian government had resorted to insults to dodge responsibility for the Amazon fires. Meanwhile, within Brazil, a number of people said they supported Bolsonaro despite local and international criticism of his handling of the crisis, exposing a divide that has split the country. Grace Quale, a hospital laboratory technician who attended a service at an evangelical church on Sunday, said that critics "want to overthrow our president," and that she didn't see a link between Bolsonaro's environmental policies and the number of people getting treatment for respiratory problems. Mona Lisa Pereira, an agronomist, also said criticism of Brazil's government was skewed." ermany had already been helping through NGOs and they couldn't prevent this," Pereira said. "It seems like this is the fire of a lifetime. But it's not. We have fires every year." Others said in an open letter that the government's discourse and measures are leading to a "collapse in federal environmental management and stimulate environmental crimes inside and outside the Amazon." More than 500 employees from the environmental regulator IBAMA signed the letter and included a list of emergency measures they recommended, including more qualified management and employees, and a greater budget and increased autonomy. The Amazon has experienced an increased rate of fires during drought periods in the last 20 years, but the phenomenon this year is "unusual" because drought has not yet hit, said Laura Schneider of Rutgers University-New Brunswick. Schneider, an associate professor in the geography department, said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation, and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years. While many of the recorded fires this year were set in already deforested areas by people clearing land for cultivation or pasture, Brazil government figures show that they are much more widespread this year, suggesting the threat to the vast Amazon ecosystem is intensifying. But for now, more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear. The world's largest rainforest is a major absorber of carbon dioxide, considered a critical defense against rising temperatures and other disruptions caused by climate change. The government in the Amazonian state of Rondonia has warned that the burning of land can produce smoke that can "greatly influence atmospheric pollution, putting the life of many at risk." Experts there said that when exposed to smoke, residents can suffer from rhinitis, sinus and respiratory problems like asthma and bronchitis, while chronic exposure can also lead to pulmonary illnesses, including lung emphysema." e've seen that (Porto Velho) has been taken over by smoke, so inhaling those antigens and pathogens can harm the whole city's population," Ana Carolina Terra Cruz, a specialist in pulmonary illnesses, told the state government website. Deep ramifications: Trump would cost General Motors billions if he actually orders business out of ChinaOn Tuesday, some clouds and a blue sky were partly visible in the Porto Velho morning light. But by the afternoon, haze had again settled, with smoke so thick that it darkened the usually blazing sun. Pereira, the agronomist, said that smoke was "everywhere." It's bad for everyone," she said. "Not just our children."	False
770	BBC	left_center_bias	2017-05-12	We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view, and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns," he said."	But a couple of things are missing.	The acceptance of the urgent need to reduce greenhouse gases (such as methane and carbon dioxide) and pollutants (like black carbon and aerosols) appears significant.	Although the logic of the statement insists that human activity is causing climate change, the word "human" is not actually present.	An announcement is expected after a trip to Europe later this month.	Climate change was the biggest issue at the biennial meeting of the Arctic Council in Fairbanks, which was overshadowed by the uncertainties over Mr Trump's policy. <sep> 	Arctic summit: Trump to make 'right decision for the US' on climate The US will consider its interests first as it reviews its climate change policy, the secretary of state says. Rex Tillerson told a meeting of the eight Arctic nations in Alaska that the US would not rush to make a decision and would consider their views. President Donald Trump has expressed doubts over the human role in climate change and has said he may pull the US out of the Paris Accord to fight it. Meanwhile, other Arctic countries have called for a cut on greenhouse gases. They signed an agreement which stated there was a need for urgent global action. Climate change was the biggest issue at the biennial meeting of the Arctic Council in Fairbanks, which was overshadowed by the uncertainties over Mr Trump's policy. Mr Tillerson, the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil, told the meeting that the administration was reviewing how it would approach climate change." We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view, and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns," he said." We're not going to rush to make a decision. We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States." Mr Trump is to decide whether the US will leave or reduce its commitments to the Paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which was negotiated by around 200 nations and signed in 2015. An announcement is expected after a trip to Europe later this month. The joint agreement by the Arctic Council mentioned the Paris accord only in a passing reference, which noted the deal's entry into force and implementation. But the text did not recommit its members to meet the pledges made. Some climate scientists here in Alaska say they are pleasantly surprised by the relatively tough language on climate change adopted by all eight Arctic Council nations including the United States. The thrust of the text, argues Prof John Walsh, chief scientist at the University of Alaska's International Arctic Research Center, actually echoes the approach of the Obama administration. The acceptance of the urgent need to reduce greenhouse gases (such as methane and carbon dioxide) and pollutants (like black carbon and aerosols) appears significant. But a couple of things are missing. Although the logic of the statement insists that human activity is causing climate change, the word "human" is not actually present. Nor is there a commitment to implement the landmark Paris accord, an omission which is causing alarm among environmentalists. Not only that, but many of the Trump administration's early policy decisions prioritised economic growth over environmental protection, and Mr Tillerson continues to insist that American climate policy remains under review. So, in short, it is far too early to conclude that the White House has suddenly been persuaded by mainstream scientific opinion on global warming - and with US politics in astonishing flux, the Fairbanks Declaration may be no more than a holding statement.	False
404	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-04-02	"We want one set of standards nationally, along with additional flexibility to help us provide more affordable options for our customers."	The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation, noting that "the social cost of carbon" and "energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence."	his is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakers," McCarthy, now the director of Harvard University's Center for Health and the Global Environment, told HuffPost."	"It is in America's best interest to have a national standard, and we look forward to partnering with all states, including California, as we work to finalize that standard."	In its 38-page finding, the EPA cited lower gas prices and changes to "consumer acceptance of advanced technology vehicles" as reasons the original determinations "no longer represent realistic assumptions."		EPA To Gut The Only Major Federal Rule To Cut Climate Pollution From Vehicles The federal rule required vehicles to average 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025, nearly double today's standard. The new standard provided significant environmental and financial benefits if fully implemented. Under those rules, oil consumption would fall by 12 billion barrels, tailpipe emissions would halve and fuel efficiency would nearly double, saving consumers $3,200 to $5,700 in gasoline costs over a vehicle's lifetime. The regulation would have prevented 6 billion metric tons of planet-warming gases ― equivalent to a year's worth of pollution from 150 power plants ― from ever entering the atmosphere. In its 38-page finding, the EPA cited lower gas prices and changes to "consumer acceptance of advanced technology vehicles" as reasons the original determinations "no longer represent realistic assumptions." The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation, noting that "the social cost of carbon" and "energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence." The memo made no mention of climate change. Automakers agreed to the rule in 2012 as part of the first major overhaul of fuel efficiency standards since the 1970s. But the policy set an April 2018 deadline to review the standards and tweak them if they proved too expensive or impossible to meet. In January 2017, the Obama administration attempted to lock the regulation in place by issuing a positive assessment of the costs and feasibility of the regulations. Despite overwhelmingly supporting the agreement seven years ago, carmakers began lobbying then-President-elect Donald Trump to reverse the Obama ruling almost immediately after the 2016 election. Automakers missed their emissions target for the first time last year, even though they achieved record fuel economy, in part because the companies boosted production of gas-guzzling SUVs. The decision to rewrite the rule puts the EPA at loggerheads with California regulators, who agreed in 2011 as part of the rule to align their tailpipe emissions standards with the national levels. The deal guaranteed consistent mileage and emissions rules nationwide, allowing automakers to save money by manufacturing vehicles to one standard. Undoing the rule threatens to upend that uniformity. Under the Clean Air Act, California is allowed to set vehicle emissions standards higher than the rest of the country, and with nearly 35.4 million registered vehicles, the state commands powerful influence over the American auto market. A dozen other states, including New York, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, have historically followed California's lead." ooperative federalism doesn't mean that one state can dictate standards for the rest of the country," Pruitt said. "It is in America's best interest to have a national standard, and we look forward to partnering with all states, including California, as we work to finalize that standard." The decision prompted sharp criticism from former EPA administrators. Carol Browner, who served as the agency's chief from 1993 to 2001, said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations. She noted that the Golden State compromised on a number of rules, including a zero emissions vehicle program." his is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakers," McCarthy, now the director of Harvard University's Center for Health and the Global Environment, told HuffPost." e support increasing clean car standards through 2025 and are not asking for a rollback," they wrote in a blog post on Medium. "We want one set of standards nationally, along with additional flexibility to help us provide more affordable options for our customers." The EPA never implemented the Clean Power Plan, the signature Obama-era rule to reduce emissions from the utility sector. But the law is still on the books, and the EPA has yet to propose a replacement that meets the legal requirements set by a 2007 Supreme Court ruling that found the agency is obliged to regulate any type of air pollution that "may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare," including greenhouse gases. The EPA and the Department of the Interior moved to eliminate Obama-era rules restricting methane emissions from gas drilling sites. But, last July, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled against the EPA's plan to suspend the rule. In February, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California ruled that the Interior Department's plan to delay methane regulations was "untethered to evidence."	False
134	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-09-18	Regeneration International, a sustainable farming nonprofit, organized the missive with the climate justice group Sunrise Movement.	e believe these climate goals are achievable," the letter argues, "but only if the GND includes policies that spur two large-scale transitions: the transition away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy alternatives, and the transition away from industrial agriculture toward family farm-based organic and regenerative farming and land-use practices that improve soil health and draw down and sequester carbon."	The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10,000 members.	e call on Congress to put the 'Green' in the Green New Deal," Wednesday's letter reads, "by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this country's middle class, to make family farming economically viable again, and to help reverse climate change and improve America's air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again."	Farmers supported the Trump administration's proposal last week to finalize the rollback of the Obama-era Waters of the U.S. rule, which had put new restrictions on which waterways agribusiness could pollute.		10,000 Farmers And Ranchers Endorse Green New Deal In Letter To Congress Nearly 10,000 farmers and ranchers are endorsing the Green New Deal as the climate policy battleground expands from the oil fields to the agricultural fields. In a letter sent to Congress on Wednesday morning, the newly formed bipartisan coalition U.S. Farmers & Ranchers for a Green New Deal threw its weight behind the sweeping industrial plan outlined in a resolution that Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) proposed in February. But zeroing out the country's planet-heating emissions by mid-century requires a transformation in agriculture as dramatic as shifting the energy sector away from fossil fuels, the letter says." e believe these climate goals are achievable," the letter argues, "but only if the GND includes policies that spur two large-scale transitions: the transition away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy alternatives, and the transition away from industrial agriculture toward family farm-based organic and regenerative farming and land-use practices that improve soil health and draw down and sequester carbon." The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10,000 members. Regeneration International, a sustainable farming nonprofit, organized the missive with the climate justice group Sunrise Movement. It also hosted a Wednesday morning press conference in Washington.A month ago, the United Nations released a dire new report urging major changes to food production and land management and warning that emissions cuts alone will fall short of halting catastrophic global warming. Taking cues from those pushing for a Green New Deal, several Democratic presidential hopefuls have made farming practices central to their climate proposals. Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) earmarked $410 billion in his Green New Deal proposal to help "farms of all sizes transition to ecologically regenerative agricultural practices." Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) called for breaking up agriculture monopolies as part of her broad rural platform. South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg vowed to "support farmers" by "paying them to capture carbon." Yet even as farmers reel from the effects of President Donald Trump's trade war with China, Democratic candidates are far from guaranteed their votes. Farmers supported the Trump administration's proposal last week to finalize the rollback of the Obama-era Waters of the U.S. rule, which had put new restrictions on which waterways agribusiness could pollute. Early on, Republican opposition to the Green New Deal itself coalesced around the idea that such a program would ban beef production, although supporters have clearly said it would not." e call on Congress to put the 'Green' in the Green New Deal," Wednesday's letter reads, "by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this country's middle class, to make family farming economically viable again, and to help reverse climate change and improve America's air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again."	False
9	foxnews	right_bias	2019-04-03	While Gaetz's proposal consists of free-market and small-government ideas of the kind Republicans have long embraced, the plan is a notable shift for the party toward tackling climate change in some fashion.	he question for America is pretty simple: either we want a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington telling us what we can't do, or we empower American innovators to unlock things that we can do," the Florida congressman said at a press conference in front of the Capitol building.	What's more, it is presented as a collection of bold, new ideas yet most of them are policies and programs that exist and aren't working.	EVIL'His plan, which he is putting forward in a House resolution, involves a number of planks including revisiting global trade and intellectual property policies to create "an international marketplace fair to American innovators."	This is perhaps the only thing 'real' about the 'Green Real Deal,'" the statement said.		GOP Rep. Matt Gaetz unveils 'Green Real Deal,' as conservative answer to AOC pet project Republican Rep. Matt Gaetz unveiled the "Green Real Deal" on Wednesday as a free-market counterproposal to the Green New Deal being pushed by Democrats to combat climate change." he question for America is pretty simple: either we want a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington telling us what we can't do, or we empower American innovators to unlock things that we can do," the Florida congressman said at a press conference in front of the Capitol building. AOC MOCKS CRITICS OF GREEN NEW DEAL'S ESTIMATED $93 TRILLION PRICE TAG: 'THEY SOUND LIKE DR. EVIL'His plan, which he is putting forward in a House resolution, involves a number of planks including revisiting global trade and intellectual property policies to create "an international marketplace fair to American innovators." Gaetz's plan also aims to modernize the electric grid, which he says currently "functions as a wet blanket over American innovation." Gaetz claims that upgrading the grid will create an "entire class of energy entrepreneurs across the country." He also wants to "unlock federal lands" from current regulations, saying they can be "an open canvas" for renewable energy research, testing and evaluation. The plan comes in response to the Green New Deal, a once-fringe policy that seeks to overhaul the nation's economy and energy use to combat climate change and combat income inequality. But this year it has emerged in the Democratic mainstream, with a resolution introduced in the House and support from most major 2020 Democratic presidential candidates. However, a test vote on the proposal recently failed in the Senate with no senator voting to begin debate on the legislation. The proposal includes a host of costly and controversial big-government programs -- including a push for net-zero greenhouse gas emissions, universal health care and job guarantee programs. In the press conference, Gaetz made references to FAQs released by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's, D-N.Y., office that said the deal aims to "upgrade or replace every building" for energy efficiency and render air travel unnecessary, while joking about getting rid of "farting cows." Do we really believe that if we outlaw cars, cows, planes and buildings that the rest of the world will follow?" he said. "Of course not, they will laugh at us." While Gaetz's proposal consists of free-market and small-government ideas of the kind Republicans have long embraced, the plan is a notable shift for the party toward tackling climate change in some fashion. Traditionally, Republicans have been more skeptical about man's influence on the climate. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler was asked in January at his confirmation hearing if he believed warnings from scientists about the threats of climate change."  would not call it the greatest crisis, no" he said. In an indication of likely conservative opposition to Gaetz's plan, advocacy group FreedomWorks issued a statement calling it a "sad example of Republicans thinking they're conservatives by being slightly to the right of far left." What's more, it is presented as a collection of bold, new ideas yet most of them are policies and programs that exist and aren't working. This is perhaps the only thing 'real' about the 'Green Real Deal,'" the statement said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPGaetz said at the press conference that he doesn't think the EPA has done a good job of combating climate change and said he wants to shift the debate among Republicans -- from focusing on the existence of climate change, to how to combat it."I didn't come to Congress to argue with a thermometer and I think that more of my colleagues need to realize that the science of global warming is irrefutable," he said.	False
191	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-08-19	And while many residents are enthusiastic about the project, there are still some that need convincing."	"Even when we explain we have a water filter, many customers don't like it.	The team's first task was to convince as many local businesses as possible to drop "pointless plastics" such as straws and bottled water.	Although they are only six months in, the team are optimistic that big changes can be made as soon as the tourist season is over and residents have more time on their hands to overhaul how they do things."	Paros was chosen because its changes in population give it complexity and because she found out when she visited the island that people were already working on the issue.	"Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it," says Zana Kontamanoli. <sep> Fourteen businesses are piloting the separate collection of plastic cups and bottles which have a higher value recycle rate. <sep> Research shows that when recycling is separated, people are less likely to just chuck all their waste in and contaminate it," says Kontamanoli. <sep> 	Paros - the Greek paradise island that wants to ditch plastic The sun dips towards the sea on Xifara beach as Stella Cervello walks along, picking up handfuls of plastic waste. There are shredded plastic bags, a glowstick from a rave on nearby Mykonos and even a food carton from Turkey." Look, you can see all the microplastics," she says, pointing at a mass of coloured dots bobbing on the waves. Like many islands in Greece's Cycladic region, waste production on the island of Paros explodes in summer when over 400,000 tourists join a local population of just 13,000. Paros is now at the centre of a drive to turn itself into the world's first island that is truly free of plastic waste. It looks like quite a challenge. In high season, the white-and-blue painted cafes that line the picturesque streets get through 1,000 plastic takeaway cups a day. Thousands of plastic bottles of water are shipped in daily, because many believe the tap water is undrinkable, although the water company insists that is wrong." You are really exposed to the reality of the situation when you live by the sea," says campaigner Zana Kontamanoli. The Greek waste management system suffered heavy cuts during the country's financial crisis, meaning recycling is often not separated and many landfill sites are not up to EU standards.A shocking 95% of waste in the Mediterranean is plastic. But within three years this may change. Paros residents Stella Cervello and Zana Kontamanoli are behind the Clean Blue Paros initiative that involves the local municipality as well as several NGOs."I was really shocked when I arrived. I could not believe how many plastic cups were flying around by the beach," says Ms Cervello, who began trying to make the island more sustainable when she moved here from France in 2016. And while she was starting up a Facebook group and talking to businesses about possible alternatives to plastic, Jo Royle from the charity Common Seas was trying to identify a Mediterranean island that could become a model for a future free of plastic waste." Islands provide a microcosm of a system that allows us to clearly see material flows," says Ms Royle. "We've got one port where everything comes in and goes off so we can really evaluate whether the systems we're piloting work." Paros was chosen because its changes in population give it complexity and because she found out when she visited the island that people were already working on the issue. Other islands such as the Seychelles archipelago have banned single-use plastics, but this is the first time an entirely new approach is being taken to make an island completely free of plastic waste. Huge signs now greet tourists at the airport to tell them about the Paros initiative. "It's what the island needs," says Ms Cervello. The team's first task was to convince as many local businesses as possible to drop "pointless plastics" such as straws and bottled water. "Out of 70 businesses we've spoken to, 50 have signed up," says Zana Kontamanoli. Fourteen businesses are piloting the separate collection of plastic cups and bottles which have a higher value recycle rate. The plastic will then be recycled on the mainland into something that can return to the island, such as benches." Research shows that when recycling is separated, people are less likely to just chuck all their waste in and contaminate it," says Kontamanoli. However, there are still many obstacles facing the team. Most bins on the island do not close, so the strong Aegean winds blow waste into the sea. And while many residents are enthusiastic about the project, there are still some that need convincing." Not serving bottled water has harmed us," admits Andy Kirk, owner of Nemobar, the first business to sign up to the scheme. "Even when we explain we have a water filter, many customers don't like it. But we've stuck to our guns." Another sticking point has been convincing bakeries and pharmacies to stop using plastic bags. The team has managed to collect thousands of used hotel bed sheets, which would usually be sent to landfill, and are making them into tote bags." In our audit we found that on some parts of the island 60% of waste was recyclable, so there needs to be more education," says Kontamanoli. The team is focusing its education efforts on the island's 2,500 schoolchildren. Most drink one small bottle of water a day each, so they are being given refillable bottles while water filters are being installed at schools. "Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it," says Zana Kontamanoli. Although they are only six months in, the team are optimistic that big changes can be made as soon as the tourist season is over and residents have more time on their hands to overhaul how they do things." Plastic pollution is very complex and there's not one solution," says Jo Royle. "But we hope if these systems work they can be applied elsewhere too."	True
104	vox	left_bias	2019-12-16	[NBC29 / CJ Paschall]• Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses.	This story is part of a group of stories calledVox Sentences is your daily digest for what's happening in the world.	[Buzzfeed News / Otillia Steadman]"If a person can accomplish all of that positivity with so little, imagine what they could do with a little bit of support and encouragement."	Your daily wrap-up for the day in news.	[Roll Call / Michael Macagnone]• The Council on Foreign Relations' Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters: granting political agency, dividing up federal funds, and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations.	While it is supposed to prevent individuals from being identified within data sets, it is skewing data and producing problems in the analysis. <sep> [YouTube / Christina Thornell and Mac Schneider]How a denial of tenure at Harvard became a national controversyHealthcare. <sep> [New York Times / Michael Wines and Jose A. Del Real]• Many of these costly efforts surround reaching hard-to-count populations within states, often at the expense of those populations. <sep> Vox Sentences: Climate talks left in the cold The news, but shorter. <sep> 	Vox Sentences: Climate talks left in the cold The news, but shorter. Your daily wrap-up for the day in news. Subscribe to get Vox Sentences delivered straight to your inbox. This story is part of a group of stories calledVox Sentences is your daily digest for what's happening in the world. Sign up for the Vox Sentences newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox Monday through Friday, or view the Vox Sentences archive for past editions.• UN climate talks ended Sunday without a full agreement of world powers on how to address the imminent threat of global warming. [AP News / Frank Jordans and Aritz Parra]• While the negotiations were meant to shore up the Paris agreement and define the terms on which the signatory countries would reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. But Trump has pulled the US out of the deal, unofficially since the US can't formally withdraw until November 4, 2020, the day after the American presidential election. [Vox / Umair Irfan]• The US, along with other major polluters, blocked a nonbinding measure that set higher standards for emissions reduction across the world and left little more than a weak call to action in the final declaration of the event. [New York Times / Somini Sengupta]• Several other countries who are experiencing climate disasters of their own, such as Australia and Brazil, also participated in gutting the summit. [Financial Times]• "We're in a very politically difficult time right now where we've got one key world leader denying climate change, so it's very hard to get other countries to move forward when you've got such a critical country playing a spoiling role," said Ian Fry, a delegate from Tuvalu. [Politico / Zack Colman and Kalina Oroschakoff]• Future negotiations are possible, with the next UN-sponsored conference regarding climate change set to take place in Glasgow but the EU-China summit next September in Leipzig will likely decide the outcome of future global efforts to combat climate change. [BBC / Matt McGrath]• Vox's Ezra Klein says there is still hope, and time, for us to fight global warming. The tools are within our reach. [Vox / Ezra Klein]• Some states are looking to shell out billions to help the 2020 census effort while others won't even pitch in a dime. [New York Times / Michael Wines and Jose A. Del Real]• Many of these costly efforts surround reaching hard-to-count populations within states, often at the expense of those populations. [NBC29 / CJ Paschall]• Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses. While it is supposed to prevent individuals from being identified within data sets, it is skewing data and producing problems in the analysis. [Roll Call / Michael Macagnone]• The Council on Foreign Relations' Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters: granting political agency, dividing up federal funds, and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations. [Council on Foreign Relations / Andrew Chatzky]• Oklahoma City and other local governments are looking to end food deserts by working with dollar stores. [Wall Street Journal / Talal Ansari]• Harvey Weinstein says he should receive thanks and recognition for helping women in Hollywood advance their careers. [Page Six / Rebecca Rosenberg]• Fox News is rebutting Trump's own claims of good polling numbers. [Vox / Aaron Rupar]• While speaking at the Doha Forum in Qatar, Ivanka Trump answered questions and sent mixed signals about the Middle East plan. [Buzzfeed News / Otillia Steadman]"If a person can accomplish all of that positivity with so little, imagine what they could do with a little bit of support and encouragement." [Terah Lawyer, program coordinator for the Homecoming Project, speaking to the impact of the project]Watch this: What makes Delhi's air so deadlyHow India's air quality plummeted and why it's a danger to the public. [YouTube / Christina Thornell and Mac Schneider]How a denial of tenure at Harvard became a national controversyHealthcare. gov glitches almost ruined the end of open enrollment. Is there a better way?Mitt Romney and Michael Bennet just unveiled a basic income plan for kidsThe reason we're talking about a government shutdown yet again, briefly explained	False
332	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-07-31	"Whatever sales or events occurred in California were causally insignificant in the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming."	"Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants' alleged California activities to plaintiffs' harm."	rom all that appears in the amended complaints, however, this worldwide chain of events (Exxon's oil production) does not depend on a particular defendant's contacts with California," he said.	t is manifest that global warming would have continued in the absence of all California-related activities of defendants," Alsup wrote in his July 27 decision.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony-up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.		Federal Judge Puts The Final Nail In The Coffin Of California's Climate Crusade A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit Friday targeting ExxonMobil on the basis that two California cities waging a legal battle could not prove the energy company was responsible for climate change in the state. District Judge William Alsup wrote that San Francisco and Oakland failed to prove that global warming would be substantially curtailed if the oil company did not operate inside California. His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress, not the court system, is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses." t is manifest that global warming would have continued in the absence of all California-related activities of defendants," Alsup wrote in his July 27 decision. "Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants' alleged California activities to plaintiffs' harm." Cities in Colorado, Rhode Island, and New York have also filed similar lawsuits against energy producers over the past year. They argue that Exxon and others should pony-up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change. Many of the lawsuits have already been nixed. Alsup also suggested that climate change would be no better or worse even if Exxon were not operating in California." rom all that appears in the amended complaints, however, this worldwide chain of events (Exxon's oil production) does not depend on a particular defendant's contacts with California," he said. "Whatever sales or events occurred in California were causally insignificant in the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming." Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings, called a contingency fee. (RELATED: Trial Lawyers Handling Cities' Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions)Hagens Berman stood to earn billions of dollars in contingency fees depending on the total winnings, from a favorable judgement against oil companies. The three cities claimed billions of dollars-worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	False
456	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-10-25	4 priority, and voters of color in that age range ranked it No.	3.	Voters aged 18-29 ranked green jobs as their No.	In a Gallup poll last month, just 1 percent of Americans ― including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats ― chose "environment/pollution" as the country's most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	Climate scientists tend to agree.		Democrats Increasingly Support The Idea Of A Green Jobs Plan: Poll The survey, commissioned by the progressive think tank Data for Progress and conducted online from Oct. 11-15, found even stronger support among young voters and people of color. Voters aged 18-29 ranked green jobs as their No. 4 priority, and voters of color in that age range ranked it No. 3. In a Gallup poll last month, just 1 percent of Americans ― including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats ― chose "environment/pollution" as the country's most important problem from a list of dozens of issues. In a separate May 2017 Gallup survey, just 2 percent of Americans listed "create more 'green' jobs" as the best policy to increase employment in the United States, compared to 19 percent who listed "keep manufacturing jobs here/Stop sending overseas." The findings come as the Trump administration is on the cusp of fully rolling back two of the most critical federal rules to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Next year, the White House is planning a make a new push to build more oil and gas pipelines, Larry Kudlow, the president's top economic adviser, said at an event this month. Already, at least six of the Democratic senators expected to run for president in 2020 are backing legislation to guarantee a job to every American worker who wants one. It's an idea roughly 46 percent of Americans support, according to an April survey by Rasmussen Reports. Polling Data for Progress released in September pegged the number slightly higher, at 55 percent of eligible U.S. voters, but found that those opposed decreased from 23 percent to 18 percent when the guaranteed jobs are green. Even among Trump voters, the September survey found, support for guaranteed jobs is stronger when the jobs are green, with 35 percent in support and 36 percent opposed. Without an environmental focus, Trump voters in support of guaranteed jobs dropped to 30 percent, with 45 percent opposed. Even in deep-red counties in fossil fuel-producing states, support for requiring utilities to produce 20 percent of electricity from renewables averages well above 50 percent, according to 2018 survey data from the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication. Support for providing tax rebates for energy-efficient vehicles and solar panels soars well above 75 percent in most of those same counties. Adopting a green jobs plan could also help Democrats ease the tension between the party's labor and climate hawks. In August, the Democratic National Committee backtracked on a two-month-old ban on fossil fuel donations. The move was a cave to unions that overwhelmingly support pipeline projects that pay much better than renewable energy jobs, which tend not to use organized labor. Still, the policy seems far off at best. It's difficult to imagine such a bill passing a Republican-dominated Congress, much less gaining Trump's signature. Democratic leadership has indicated it has no plans to push a major climate bill even if the party takes the House of Representatives in next month's election. Yet there's a small contingent of left-wing candidates ― including Wisconsin congressional candidate Randy Bryce and Kevin de León, the California lawmaker challenging Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein ― who are running on a so-called "Green New Deal," a reference to the Great Depression-era spending programs that established many of the nation's infrastructure landmarks. Ocasio-Cortez, the democratic socialist expected to become the next U.S. representative for New York's 14th Congressional District, likened climate change to the "existential threat" posed by "Nazi Germany and the Axis." The last time we had a really major existential threat to this country was around World War II," Ocasio-Cortez said at a campaign event. "And so we've been here before and we have a blueprint of doing this before." Climate scientists tend to agree. In July, Penn State University climatologist Michael Mann called Ocasio-Cortez's proposal for trillions in federal spending on a Green New Deal to be "just the sort of audacious and bold thinking we will need if we are going to avert a climate crisis." Just three weeks ago, a sobering United Nations report warned that world governments have just 12 years to halve emissions in order to avert cataclysmic climate change. And even then, the researchers found that technologies to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere will be required to keep warming within 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit, beyond which scientists say many densely populated places will become uninhabitable. Progress to mitigate climate change has been alarmingly limited. Despite the rapid construction of renewable energy infrastructure, the United States, the world's largest per-capita emitter, is aggressively bolstering its fossil fuel production. Last year, Trump announced the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, which every recognized country on Earth has signed. Brazil, the vast rainforests of which are critical to absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, is poised to elect a president who vowed to ramp up deforestation and withdraw from the historic 2015 accord as well. China, the world's top national emitter, is continuing to build new coal plants despite pledging to cancel the facilities.	False
697	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-04-08	"Conservation must remain a way of life."	California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation, among other measures.	Brown also said the need for conservation continued.	The drought cost the agricultural economy billions, killed an estimated 100 million trees, led a half-million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water.	t's worth taking a moment to be grateful for all the rain and snow out there," Felicia Marcus, chair of the State Water Resources Control Board, told reporters on a conference call after the governor's announcement.		California governor declares end to drought emergency LOS ANGELES (Reuters) – One of the worst droughts in California history has officially ended, Governor Jerry Brown declared, but not before it strained the state's farm economy and threatened water supplies for millions of residents. Months of drenching storms and melting snowpack have replenished reservoirs, which began drying up in late 2011. That allowed Brown to lift most stipulations of an emergency order he implemented in January 2014, about two years after the conditions crossed the line into drought. Brown also said the need for conservation continued. Officials will still require some long-term water-use limits imposed last year and are developing water preservation standards for urban agencies." his drought emergency is over, but the next drought could be around the corner," Brown said in a statement. "Conservation must remain a way of life." The drought cost the agricultural economy billions, killed an estimated 100 million trees, led a half-million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water. In April 2015, when the state's snowpack hit its lowest since 1950 at 5 percent of its historic average, Brown stood on a dry mountain that was normally blanketed in snow at that time of year and ordered urban areas to reduce water use by 25 percent. As of last week, the snowpack stood at 150 percent of normal. The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state, which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables, did too little to force farmers to conserve water. For their part, farmers said they received far less water than promised by state and federal authorities. On Friday, the Democratic governor lifted the drought declaration in all counties except four, mostly in the state's agricultural Central Valley." t's worth taking a moment to be grateful for all the rain and snow out there," Felicia Marcus, chair of the State Water Resources Control Board, told reporters on a conference call after the governor's announcement. California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation, among other measures. Even though the drought is officially over, groundwater supplies remain below normal, the Natural Resources Defense Council cautioned in a statement." ear after year, California continues to use more water than is made available by nature," Kate Poole, director of the group's water and wildlife project, said in a statement.	False
371	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-11-27	We'd like to see something that is more data driven.	"It's not data driven.	org.	He says the NCA's second volume relies on the RCP8.5, one of the four possible pathways in the trajectory.	We think that this is the most extreme version and it's not based on facts," she said.		'Not Based On Facts': Sarah Sanders Pushes Back Against New Climate Report White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders dismissed a major White House climate change report that some have used to criticize President Donald Trump's position on global warming. The report is "not based on facts," Sanders told reporters during a press conference Tuesday. She also argued that climate modeling of the kind researchers used in the National Climate Assessment report "is never exact." We think that this is the most extreme version and it's not based on facts," she said. "It's not data driven. We'd like to see something that is more data driven. It's based on modeling, which is extremely hard to do when you're talking about the climate." The NCA report came from a team of 13 federal agencies and was cobbled together with the help of 300 scientists. They used a Representative Concentration Pathway adopted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC) fifth Assessment Report (AR5) to make their conclusions. Continued use of coal and other fossil fuels will eliminate 10 percent of the GDP by 2100, according to the report. The country will also be 3 to 12 degrees hotter depending on the level of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere, the report warns. It also suggests wildfires and hurricanes will increase as a result if the risk is left unchecked. The report is not without its controversies. One climate expert argues researchers used an unreliable climate model. University of Colorado Prof. Roger Pielke Jr., for instance, criticized the researchers in a series of tweets Saturday for basing their modeling on a data that are likely to change dramatically over the course of the next 80 years. He says the NCA's second volume relies on the RCP8.5, one of the four possible pathways in the trajectory. (RELATED: A Top-Line Claim In The Newest US Climate Report Relies On Research Tied To Major Democratic Donors)This particular pathway is slowly being phased out of the IPCC's modeling because scientists believe the model likely overestimates future supply of fossil fuels. Researchers used the most extreme example possible to sell the narrative that wildfires will get worse, Pielke noted. He has criticized the media's handling of similar reports. NCA's dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes from a 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors. The study was also funded by other organizations, including the National Science Foundation, the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
758	USA Today	left_center_bias	2017-08-31	I could easily imagine all that stuff would be kind of viewed as frivolous and go away because it's not core statement message stuff."	"There's simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	"Loss of program funding would reverse this trend."	The cost of cleaning up a site depends on a variety of factors, including the extent of contamination and state cleanup standards.	Ben Thomas, a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules, said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to "appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players (and) the general community outreach."		Trump budget cut could slow cleanup of 70,000 fuel leaks that threaten groundwater WASHINGTON — Gasoline, oil and other contaminants that threaten groundwater are seeping from more than 70,000 underground tanks around the country, but the federal aid that has helped address the problem could soon start drying up. The Trump administration is proposing to slash funding for the Leaking Underground Storage Tank program by nearly half next year — from nearly $92 million this year to about $47 million in 2018. The recommended cut in the LUST program is part of the president's proposal to reduce the Environmental Protection Agency budget by 31% next year. Funding for LUST is a drop in the EPA's $8.2 billion budget. But state officials, environmental activists and public health advocates warn that the size of the cut carries great risk considering groundwater is the source of drinking water for nearly half of all Americans. They say such a reduction would hamper monitoring, prevention, enforcement and cleanup of leaks as well as the important role EPA plays in providing technical assistance to state regulators and businesses, many of them gas stations, who have aging tanks and piping under their sites. In a letter earlier this year to congressional leaders, the head of the trade organization representing state solid waste agencies said the cut would impede the long-term progress states have made on inspection and cleanup. The program "has made great strides in increasing the number of compliant tanks in the last 25 years, which has resulted in fewer releases," wrote Dania Rodriguez, executive director of the Association of State and Territorial Solid Waste Management Officials. "Loss of program funding would reverse this trend." The Trump administration announced the proposed cut in May, two months after the Department of Veterans Affairs officially recognized the harm contaminated water — some of it linked to underground fuel tanks — inflicted on hundreds of thousands of marines stationed at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina from 1953 through 1987. Under the VA program announced in March, those who served at least 30 days in Lejeune during that period are eligible for treatment of eight diseases, including several cancers and Parkinson's Disease. There are 558,451 active tanks located in about 201,000 sites nationwide, according to the EPA's most recent tally. Most are service stations, but they also include any operation where fuel is stored underground such as government fleet garages, large retail operations like Costco stores that sell gas, and institutions like hospitals or universities that store fuel to power emergency generators." cross the country, thousands of underground storage tanks and accompanying pipes — many of them made from older, corroding steel — hold and carry a variety of fuels and chemicals," the Environmental Defense Fund wrote in a recent report. "When tanks leak harmful chemicals such as oil, gas, benzene and toluene into soil and ground water, drinking water and soil are fouled, community health is jeopardized, and economic development is crippled." The number of tanks with confirmed releases hit a high in 1995 with nearly 172,000. But the backlog of sites needing to be cleaned up has been declining since 2000, according to EPA records. As of March 31, EPA reported 70,094 tanks with confirmed leaks. Some of these are not actively leaking, but have residual contamination that needs to be cleaned up. Superfund cuts would lead to delays in toxic cleanups, experts warnFlorida leads the list of states reporting the most leaking tanks with 10,421, followed by Michigan (8,000), Illinois (5,733), New Jersey (5,100) and North Carolina (4,006). Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs, but a taxpayer-funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly, are abandoned or when owners don't have the resources. The fund is financed by a 0.1 cent per gallon tax on gasoline,  which generated $202 million in 2016. Administration officials did not offer much explanation for the cut, one of dozens proposed in the EPA budget." istorically the (underground tank) program has worked closely with our state, territorial, and tribal partners," an agency spokeswoman wrote in an email. "We know they are on the front lines to protect our land and groundwater from petroleum leaks, such as those from gas stations and other (underground storage tank) facilities, and we expect this partnership will continue to be a hallmark of the program." She wrote it would be "premature for us to speculate" about EPA's budget given that Congress has yet to finalize the agency's funding for next year. The House Appropriations Committee voted in July to restore almost all of the funding for the program, but neither the full House nor the Senate has acted yet. The cost of cleaning up a site depends on a variety of factors, including the extent of contamination and state cleanup standards. The average cleanup is estimated to cost $130,000 but can rise to over $1 million if groundwater is infected. Ben Thomas, a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules, said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to "appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players (and) the general community outreach." Slashing a program known for the collaboration between regulators and businesses and the effectiveness it's achieved in reducing the backlog of leaking tanks would be crippling, he said." t some point, such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non-responsive," Thomas said. "There's simply not enough money to know what to prioritize. Stuff that makes a big stink like enforcement would probably get cut (as would) the ability for states to maintain a hotline, maintain a web page or do workshops. I could easily imagine all that stuff would be kind of viewed as frivolous and go away because it's not core statement message stuff."	False
689	CNN	left_bias	2017-04-22	We have many priorities at the agency.	We must focus on those," he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on "The Situation Room" in February, rattling off other needs, such as improving air quality.	America must look forward to and innovate for 21st century solutions.	"We are an extraordinarily innovative, capable nation.	And now, of course, it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation.		Climate scientists, officials dismayed over Trump's stance This week, President Donald Trump was to meet with senior administration officials to discuss the deal -- and whether the United States should withdraw from it. The meeting was postponed indefinitely, and with key Trump advisers divided over the issue, it is still uncertain what Trump will finally do about the accord. But advocates of greater federal regulations to address climate change are already expressing dismay about the administration's stance. It's no secret that Trump has called climate change a "hoax" in the past. Last month, he signed an executive order rolling back Obama-era climate regulations, which will initiate a review of the Clean Power Plan, an effort to cut carbon dioxide emissions that Obama started. And Trump's pick to run the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, has made it clear addressing climate change will not be an urgent priority for the agency under his watch, declining to say after his confirmation whether he would forbid EPA scientists from studying the human connection to the issue." We have many priorities at the agency. We must focus on those," he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on "The Situation Room" in February, rattling off other needs, such as improving air quality. He declined to answer repeated questions as to whether he would "allow" climate-change research. "It's a shame for us to lose our leadership position," said Christine Todd Whitman, the EPA administrator during the George W. Bush administration. "We are an extraordinarily innovative, capable nation. We can come up with better ways to provide power to people and still keep jobs. This idea that environmental protection and economic growth are contrary are just wrong, and we've proven that over the years as we have reduced the pollutants in the air, increased the population, increased our energy demand and watched our GDP more than double." "We've seen we can do this," Whitman continued. "We've done it in the past; we can do it again. We can't have a thriving economy if you don't have a healthy, clean environment." Adam Koniuszewski, project leader of the Gorbachev Climate Change Task Force, a think tank that focuses on global challenges posed by climate change, agreed with Whitman. "President Trump has an America First policy," he said. "But in terms of climate leadership, it is exactly the opposite. Promoting a coal- or fossil-fuel-based economy will, in reality, leave America last in terms of a low-carbon economy in the 21st century. China is already taking the lead when it comes to renewable energy -- both solar and wind power. America must look forward to and innovate for 21st century solutions. An emphasis on coal and the energy sources that propelled the industrial revolution is like returning to the Stone Age." Trump's executive order also lifts the moratorium on coal mining on federal lands, something that William Becker, executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project called a "cruel political stunt" designed to rally the support of coal miners, but which won't bring back many jobs. "What we need to do is make sure the transition to clean energy, which is inevitable, is a just and fair transition, one that helps coal-dependent communities and workers make transitions into other kinds of jobs," Becker said. "There's plenty to do out there, including environmental restoration positions," he said. "Coal jobs are not going to come back. There may be a little surge in them, but not much. It's technology or mechanization that's cost most of the jobs this past century in the coal industry. And now, of course, it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation. The market conditions are what's causing the coal industry to decline, and there's not much the President can do to reverse that trend." Trump has proposed massive cuts at the EPA, which Whitman believes is going to imperil its mission going forward. "The EPA can't survive with 31% cuts to the budget," she said. "That's going to really make it impossible for the agency to continue its mission, which is to protect public health and the environment."	False
227	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-03-01	Among other measures, he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons.	growth in the nation in 2018, according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis.	He then proposed a different series of actions, including running the state's electric utilities fully on renewable power by 2045, requiring buildings to be more energy efficient, promoting electric vehicles and cutting down on hydrofluorocarbons, which are used in air-conditioners.	Jay Inslee on the Issues His environmental policy record in his home state is long.	While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change, he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.• He has been outspoken in favor of gun control, and after the shooting in Parkland, Fla., last year, he confronted President Trump on live television, denouncing Mr. Trump's suggestion to arm schoolteachers.		Jay Inslee on the Issues His environmental policy record in his home state is long. In 2015, he ordered Washington's Department of Ecology to impose a cap on carbon emissions. He created a fund for clean energy, and the state now has extensive solar energy infrastructure and electric buses. While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels, Washington had the highest G.D.P. growth in the nation in 2018, according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis. Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax, which would have been the first in the nation; voters rejected the proposal in November. He then proposed a different series of actions, including running the state's electric utilities fully on renewable power by 2045, requiring buildings to be more energy efficient, promoting electric vehicles and cutting down on hydrofluorocarbons, which are used in air-conditioners. Hydrofluorocarbon emissions have been growing faster than any other form of greenhouse gas emissions. In an op-ed in The Washington Post, Mr. Inslee called for net-zero carbon emissions nationwide by 2050 — a longer timeline than the Green New Deal's 10 years, which experts say is unrealistic. ("Net-zero" could mean either eliminating carbon emissions altogether, or reducing them and using offsetting technologies to cancel out the rest.) He also called for a "100 percent clean-energy grid" and "massive investments" to transition buildings, industries and transportation to renewable sources. While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change, he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.• He has been outspoken in favor of gun control, and after the shooting in Parkland, Fla., last year, he confronted President Trump on live television, denouncing Mr. Trump's suggestion to arm schoolteachers. Among other measures, he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons. His advocacy on the issue goes back many years; he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	False
565	breitbart	questionable_source	2018-02-09	We need to better anticipate support requirements, similar to those of people fleeing other unviable situations."	"[58] Fry's speech to the conference was a highly impassioned plea for countries around the world to address the issues of man-made global warming resulting in climate change.	As recently as last year, anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu (pop.	"This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements.	It records possibly Tuvalu's greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.		Delingpole: 'Sinking' Pacific Island Actually Getting Bigger Shock In fact it's getting bigger, scientists now admit.A University of Auckland study examined changes in the geography of Tuvalu's nine atolls and 101 reef islands between 1971 and 2014, using aerial photographs and satellite imagery. It found eight of the atolls and almost three-quarters of the islands grew during the study period, lifting Tuvalu's total land area by 2.9 percent, even though sea levels in the country rose at twice the global average.  Co-author Paul Kench said the research, published Friday in the journal Nature Communications, challenged the assumption that low-lying island nations would be swamped as the sea rose. "We tend to think of Pacific atolls as static landforms that will simply be inundated as sea levels rise, but there is growing evidence these islands are geologically dynamic and are constantly changing," he said. "The study findings may seem counter-intuitive, given that (the) sea level has been rising in the region over the past half century, but the dominant mode of change over that time on Tuvalu has been expansion, not erosion." If only they'd done their study a bit earlier they could have saved a lot of alarmists a lot of worry. As recently as last year, anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu (pop. 11,000) and nearby Kiribati (pop.107,000) was so dire that Australia and New Zealand should open their doors to the fleeing refugees. According to the paper:In 2007, Grist went so far as to cite Tuvalu of one of climate change's most "tragic" victims.'Climate Change in Tuvalu' even has its own Wikipedia page. It records possibly Tuvalu's greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight. In December 2009 the islands stalled talks at United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission, their chief negotiator stated "Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change, and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting."[57] When the conference failed to reach a binding, meaningful agreement, Tuvalu's representative Ian Fry said, "It looks like we are being offered 30 pieces of silver to betray our people and our future… Our future is not for sale. I regret to inform you that Tuvalu cannot accept this document."[58] Fry's speech to the conference was a highly impassioned plea for countries around the world to address the issues of man-made global warming resulting in climate change. The five-minute speech addressed the dangers of rising sea levels to Tuvalu and the world. In his speech Fry claimed man-made global warming to be currently "the greatest threat to humanity", and ended with an emotional "the fate of my country rests in your hands".[59]Tuvalu's plight also formed part of the basis for arguably the most hysterical fake news claim in the history of climate alarmism: the UN's prediction that by the end of 2010, climate change would have created "50 million environmental refugees". The UN has since removed the claim from most of its websites. Happily, it can still be glimpsed in the Guardian archives:Rising sea levels, desertification and shrinking freshwater supplies will create up to 50 million environmental refugees by the end of the decade, experts warn today. Janos Bogardi, director of the Institute for Environment and Human Security at the United Nations University in Bonn, said creeping environmental deterioration already displaced up to 10 million people a year, and the situation would get worse. "There are well-founded fears that the number of people fleeing untenable environmental conditions may grow exponentially as the world experiences the effects of climate change," Dr Bogardi said. "This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements. We need to better anticipate support requirements, similar to those of people fleeing other unviable situations." In reality, the total number of environmental refugees fleeing climate change so far around the world is close to zero. But that hasn't stopped a few chancers from trying it on…Seventeen people from the Pacific – including 11 from Tuvalu and five from Kiribati – have already made refugee claims in New Zealand, citing climate change as part of their basis of claim. None have been successful (four have yet to be determined and 13 have been rejected) because the refugees convention does not recognise climate change as grounds for protection. To climate skeptics, the fact that Tuvalu is not drowning will come as no surprise whatsoever. Their favorite sea levels expert – Nils-Axel Mörner – has written numerous papers on the subject.	False
21	redstate	right_bias	2019-02-05	A scenario where we're all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	When pie-in-the-sky thinking meets end-of-times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	All we have to do is give up our common sense.	Still, Ocasio-Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action it'll solve every problem under the sun, including racism and bigotry.	$7 trillion.		Here's the Outrageous Cost of Ocasio-Cortez's "Green New Deal" Freshman Democrat Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has some lofty goals for herself and for America, with the benefits definitely more geared to benefit her. Meanwhile, her plans for us are incredibly costly, and not just because she's pushing a failed economic system for us to operate under. Ocasio-Cortez's "Green New Deal," as Fox News highlighted on Tuesday, is unprecedentedly expensive. The plan involves completely removing any and all uses of fossil fuels within America and moving to 100 percent renewable energy. The New York Democrat says the plan will take ten years. The cost of this ten-year plan? $7 trillion. As I've highlighted previously, the plan is beyond bad. Not only would it indebt us to Russia and China who hold the vast majority of the rare-earth materials needed to build the tidal wave of renewable energy devices we'd need to keep up with the nation's energy needs, but the wind farms, tidal generators, and solar farms have proven to be more deadly to the environment than oil spills. Hundreds of thousands of birds, many of them protected species, die at the hands of wind turbines yearly. Tidal generators beach whales with such frequency that if it were a Republican-backed project, environmental groups would be having conniption fits and endless marches. Still, Ocasio-Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action it'll solve every problem under the sun, including racism and bigotry. What's more, the young democratic socialist proclaims that if we don't do it then we're all going to die in 12 years. When pie-in-the-sky thinking meets end-of-times conspiracy theories we get something like this. A scenario where we're all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed. All we have to do is give up our common sense.	False
76	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-09-19	The content is provided for information purposes only.	One of the many ways people can contribute to that movement is by telling others about steps they have personally taken, "then when you say 'this is really urgent,' your words are backed by the truth of your actions."	Maassarani is quick to admit that his case falls well outside what most people could envisage and is made possible only by living in what he calls a "consumption excessive society."	Some people, like Tarek Maassarani, take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	Kalmus, who has written a book on his experiences, said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a "rapid cultural transformation," and acts of individual defiance help achieve that.	What this means is "I don't buy any animal products, I try not to create any demand signal for animal products," he said. <sep> But how impactful can individual action be, in the absence of systemic changes from the top? <sep> 	Solar panels, vegan diets, no flights: 'Warming' revolutionaries... The last time Californian climate scientist Peter Kalmus was on an airplane was in 2012: He says it made him feel physically sick and like he was "stealing" from his children's future, and vowed never to fly again. US President Donald Trump's administration has made no secret of its disdain for climate science, but that hasn't stopped some ordinary Americans from finding ways to drastically reduce their own carbon footprints, hoping to persuade others through their examples. Kalmus was pursuing his post-doctoral studies in 2009 when he became increasingly concerned about the prospect of climate breakdown, tipping points such as the thawing of the Earth's permafrost triggering runaway global warming that wreaks havoc on weather systems. "I was shaking people by the lapels, posting screeds on Facebook, not really getting anywhere," he told AFP in an interview from his home in a Los Angeles suburb. "Eventually, it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs." Drawing upon his expertise as a scientist, he calculated the emissions associated with various aspects of his life and was surprised to learn that electricity consumption made up a tiny portion compared to air travel. "So I started focusing on flying less. I tried being a vegetarian for a month, and I liked it better," he said, quickly realizing that, rather than feeling like sacrifices, the changes he made were improving his sense of wellbeing. Some people, like Tarek Maassarani, take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes. The bespectacled 40-year-old with long blond hair does paid consulting for the United States Institute of Peace and is an adjunct professor at two Washington universities, but performs the bulk of his work in the volunteer sector. Two years ago, he moved out of a co-housing community in a Washington suburb when his two sons shifted to Utah to live with their mother, and has been living between friends' houses ever since. Apart from relying almost exclusively on his bicycle for transport, including deep into winter, Maassarani is focused on avoiding buying new products because of the energy-intensive nature of their production. He instead depends on hand-me-downs, "and I sort of extend the life of things well past what most people would do," finding ways to keep tatty decade-old cell phones and laptops going. He gets much of his food from dumpster diving or from the leftovers at buffets from conferences he attends, describing himself as a "supply-and-demand vegan." What this means is "I don't buy any animal products, I try not to create any demand signal for animal products," he said. At the same time, if meat is all that is left when he rummages through garbage or approaches buffets (he makes it a point to go last), he will consume it. Maassarani is quick to admit that his case falls well outside what most people could envisage and is made possible only by living in what he calls a "consumption excessive society." "I'm aware of course that if the excesses weren't there, it wouldn't work, but then again the problem wouldn't be there." Others, like Elizabeth Hogan, lead more conventional lives but are still re-orienting themselves toward more carbon neutrality. Hogan, who works as a consultant on mitigating the impact of ocean plastics on marine life, just outfitted solar panels on the roof of her home in Washington. She and her husband estimate these will account for 80 percent of their energy needs, with the balance coming from wind power bought at a premium from their electric provider. "Both of our careers are very planet-oriented, so it's kind of our whole lives, but I am certainly not claiming to be perfect," she says, conceding that they both fly extensively for work. Her love of cheese means she's a vegetarian, rather than a vegan, but sources her dairy from a nearby local farm that cleans and re-uses glass bottles returned to them. But how impactful can individual action be, in the absence of systemic changes from the top? After all, the United States' current climate commitments are rated by Climate Action Tracker as "critically insufficient" in meeting the goal of limiting long-term warming to two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Kalmus, who has written a book on his experiences, said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a "rapid cultural transformation," and acts of individual defiance help achieve that. "The reason everyone's waking up is because there's been this massive grassroots shift over the last year or two," he said, citing the global youth movement for climate action. One of the many ways people can contribute to that movement is by telling others about steps they have personally taken, "then when you say 'this is really urgent,' your words are backed by the truth of your actions." Vegan is the new vegetarian—why supermarkets need to go 'plant-based' to help save the planet This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.	False
59	foxnews	right_bias	2019-02-08	"I would love to understand this logic.	This is honesty (sp) about how Democrats would micromanage private life."	"Because, you know, like, money is just paper, and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff, right?	Right?"	It is beautiful."		WSJ writer slams Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal, says it looks like Dem parody bill The Wall Street Journal's Kimberley Strassel issued a blistering critique of the proposed Green New Deal, saying that the proposal reads like a parody of the Democratic Party done by Republicans." y the end of the Green New Deal resolution (and accompanying fact sheet) I was laughing so hard I nearly cried," Strassel wrote on Twitter. "If a bunch of GOPers plotted to forge a fake Democratic bill showing how bonkers the party is, they could not have done a better job. It is beautiful." The Green New Deal, pushed by freshman New York Democrat Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez, attempts to radically transform the country, including rendering air travel obsolete, move the U.S. to rely completely on renewable energy with net-zero emissions, and guarantee economic security even for people who are "unwilling" to work. OCASIO-CORTEZ CONTRADICTS HERSELF ON ROLE OF GOVERNMENT IN MASSIVE AND UNPRECEDENTED 'GREEN NEW DEAL'But the sweeping proposal was hit with mockery once the details were unveiled on Thursday, with many pointing out how unrealistic the suggestions are. Strassel pointed out that in order to live up to the proposal's promise of 100 percent of renewable energy, a space as big as the entire state of California would have to be dedicated solely for the facilities, wind turbines, and solar panels. The proposal's suggestion of putting charging stations "everywhere," upgrading or replacing "every building" and developing high-speed railway across every state may also hit a wall due to permitting laws. FULL TEXT: GREEN NEW DEAL FAQ CALLS FOR ABOLISHING 'FARTING COWS' AND 'AIRPLANES' ASAPStrassel notes that the Green New Deal is far from just a proposal to curb emissions and create more environmental regulations – it's also about implementing radical left-wing measures." omehow, government-run healthcare, 'family sustainable' wages, paid leave, and 'affordable' housing are also 'required' for a clean economy," the writer wrote. "I would love to understand this logic. (And imagine what wages will need to be to pay for billion-dollar-per-kilowatt electricity)." But even those pushing for the document aren't sure it can actually be achieved within 10 years. In a now-deleted FAQ page on Ocasio-Cortez's website, the document explains that it's calling for an elimination of greenhouse gas emissions rather than an immediate ban on fossil fuels because "we aren't sure that we'll be able to fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes that fast." Planes run on fossil fuel. No fossil fuel, no visits to granny. Cows produce methane, why alarmists want to get rid of livestock," Stressel wrote. "She can't do it 'fully' in 10 years, but AOC is coming after your air miles and bacon. This is honesty (sp) about how Democrats would micromanage private life." Lastly, the Green New Deal, which doesn't exactly reveal how it will be funded, except for the suggestion that the Federal Reserve could step in and extend credit. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP"And how to pay for mass trillions in cost? Don't worry! Federal Reserve will just 'extend credit' and 'new public banks can be created to extend credit too,'" the writer tweeted. "Because, you know, like, money is just paper, and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff, right? Right?"	False
532	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2018-08-17	"I've heard the climate change argument back and forth.	He also acknowledged that "temperatures are rising."	This has nothing to do with climate change.	This has to do with active forest management," Zinke said.	We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access -- that have refused to allow [the] harvest of timber," Zinke told Breitbart Monday.		After denying link, interior secretary says climate change impacts wildfires Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke suggested that climate change may have a role in the recent wildfires that have ravaged California. When asked by CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang whether he accepted that climate change was part of the problem, Zinke said "of course." He also acknowledged that "temperatures are rising." However, Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week, blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry." The only endangered species happens to be a logger," Zinke said. Earlier this week, Zinke blamed "environmental terrorist groups" for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio." We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access -- that have refused to allow [the] harvest of timber," Zinke told Breitbart Monday. On Sunday, Zinke said that the wildfires had "nothing to do with climate change" in an interview with local news station KCRA-TV. He suggested that environmental groups had prevented timber salvage operations, meaning that forests could not be cleared of flammable detritus."I've heard the climate change argument back and forth. This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management," Zinke said. President Trump tweeted earlier in August that California wildfires were made "so much worse" by "bad environmental laws," and called for clearing trees to prevent fires. The Mendocino Complex Fire north of San Francisco is the largest wildfire in state history and has scorched over 400 square miles. More than 14,000 firefighters are responding to over a dozen major blazes throughout California.	False
866	RT	questionable_source	2017-08-30	It added it was "taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment."	"Actions were taken to minimize emissions and to restore the refinery to normal operations."	In this case, it caused product to spill to the ground.	Exxon said it would "conduct an assessment to determine the impact of the storm once it's safe to do so," the Washington Post reports.	The refinery reported two controlled emission release events, which included carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and benzene being released into the atmosphere.		Texas air pollution sensors switched off as refineries seep toxic chemicals into air & water US crude oil and petrochemical refining capacity in Texas has been severely damaged by Hurricane Harvey, releasing hazardous pollutants into the air and flood waters left in the wake of the storm. Arkema, a global chemical major, warned Wednesday that flooding has severely damaged their Houston plant's refrigeration systems, increasing the likelihood of an explosion in the coming week and a heightened risk of yet more pollutants leaking into the ecosystem." t this time, while we do not believe there is any imminent danger, the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire and/or explosion within the site confines is real," Arkema said in a statement. Oil giant Exxon Mobil is among the companies to report incidents of emissions released at its refineries as a result of the hurricane which ransacked coastal parts of Texas and caused widespread flooding in the country's fourth biggest city, Houston. However, the true extent of the air pollution will prove hard to determine for some time after the storm subsides as The Texas Council on Environmental Quality shut down all of its air quality monitors in the Houston area, according to the Houston Press. This effectively means the affected companies can report whatever they wish without any oversight from the state regulators. Texas is also home to several so-called superfund sites, designated areas of extreme pollution "which warrant further investigation" according to the Environmental Protection Agency. As shown in the before and after maps below, the vast majority of these toxic sites are now flooded in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. On Wednesday, Saudi-owned Motiva shuttered its refinery in Port Arthur, Texas, the largest facility in the US, which normally produces 600,000 barrels a day. At least 13 other refineries in the area closed as a result of Harvey, the US Department of Energy reported, while others are operating at limited capacity. Exxon admitted there were issues at its plants in a regulatory filing to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. Its Baytown refinery near Houston, the second-largest in the country, was shutdown on Sunday as Harvey moved inland. The refinery reported two controlled emission release events, which included carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and benzene being released into the atmosphere. The chemicals and pollutants released from refineries and plants in Texas' petrochemical hub are known to have a damaging effect on the environment and could pose a risk of contaminating floodwaters left in the hurricane's wake. The petrochemical Benzene, a carcinogen and major component in fossil fuels, reduces red and white blood cell production and decreases auto-immune cell function following prolonged exposure. While other emissions, including, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides are particle-forming air pollutants that contribute to cardiopulmonary health issues, like lung cancer, bronchitis and emphysema. In a third reported incident since Harvey made landfall in Texas, Exxon said a floating roof over a tank in its Baytown refinery sank as a result of the rain, causing unusually high levels of emissions to be released. Floating roofs are common in oil tanks and are a way to control how much oil is lost to evaporation by allowing the roof to move based on the amount of liquid in the tank. Exxon said it would "conduct an assessment to determine the impact of the storm once it's safe to do so," the Washington Post reports. The company said it needed to make repairs on the tank, which would involve first emptying it, though Exxon could not confirm in what time frame. One of the company's other facilities, in Beaumont, east of Houston, also released 1,300lbs of sulphur dioxide in one hour on Sunday, exceeding its allocated emissions limit by a factor of ten to one." xcess emissions occurred during an upset on the Sulfur Plant Thermal Oxidizer," Exxon said in the report." he unit was stabilized. No impact to the community has been reported," the company said. "Actions were taken to minimize emissions and to restore the refinery to normal operations." Petrochemical giant Chevron Phillips reported an estimated 776,000 pounds of combined chemicals released from its Cedar Bayou plant in Baytown as part of its plant shutdown. Kinder Morgan, the largest energy infrastructure company in North America, stores petroleum products for companies such as Chevron and Shell at its terminal in Pasadena, Harris. It reported 394,000 pounds of combined hazardous chemicals on Sunday and Monday, also as a result of a malfunctioning floating roof. In this case, it caused product to spill to the ground. Kinder Morgan said it will "attempt to safely land roof of Tank 150-39 and remove product when conditions are safe." It added it was "taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment." Almost one third of US oil refining capacity is located on the Gulf Coast. The US produces about 17.5 million barrels of oil per day. According to oil market analysts cited by CNBC, about 20 percent of the country's oil refining operations are out of service. Ships carrying crude oil from the Mexican Gulf are not able to port in the area due to swelling waters caused by Harvey, resulting in a backlog of ships waiting to dock and unload their cargo. The Gulf of Mexico accounts for close to 20 percent of total US crude oil production. CNBC estimates the port closures cost roughly $350 million a day. The port hold-up also affects the amount of crude oil refineries have access to once they return to full operation. Gas prices across the US have already risen to a two-year high, with the increase likely to hit consumers at the pump in a week. It is unknown how long the refineries will remain out of production, as the extent of flood damage is not yet known. Following Hurricane Katrina in 2005, refineries in the area didn't return to normal production capacity for two months.	False
305	rt	questionable_source	2019-09-05	Like this story?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	"Twitter furiously deploying algorithms to keep Biden's bloody corpse eye from trending," observed another (it appeared to work - while #ClimateTownHall was trending, #BidensBloodyEye and variations thereof were noticeably not).	Meanwhile, others made the inevitable comparisons to Hillary Clinton – another candidate with a marked "enthusiasm gap" between donors and voters, who has run for president and lost before, yet is propped up by the media as the surefire winner.	At around the same time, his campaign cautioned voters not to "turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines" – an ironic coincidence, or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?Before Biden's eye exploded, the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive.		Is he OK? Biden's eye fills with BLOOD as he defends fossil fuel ties at climate forum (VIDEO) Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audience's eyes at the climate change town hall – literally, as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half-truths and excuses. The former Vice President was clearly floundering during CNN's climate change town hall on Wednesday, which saw him face off against eight other Democrats. Viewers called him out for "rambling, incoherent" answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry. Then his left eye began filling up with blood. At around the same time, his campaign cautioned voters not to "turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines" – an ironic coincidence, or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?Before Biden's eye exploded, the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive. The three-time candidate has never been particularly committed to "green" issues – slammed by environmental groups for not having a climate change policy, he finally released one in June that contained several plagiarized items. But he had, along with most of the other Democratic candidates, promised not to take money from the fossil fuel industry – a promise the fundraiser seemed to break, to viewers' dismay. But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye. "Look, Biden haters, sometimes your eye is gonna spontaneously fill up with blood, okay," one user joked. "Twitter furiously deploying algorithms to keep Biden's bloody corpse eye from trending," observed another (it appeared to work - while #ClimateTownHall was trending, #BidensBloodyEye and variations thereof were noticeably not). Apparently, it wasn't even the first time Biden's eye has filled up with blood during an important political event. But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment. "Not sure after tonight who has less time to live, Biden or the planet," said one. "Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding," commented another. "I give it 14 minutes before Biden's campaign says his bloody eye was because of climate change," predicted another. Meanwhile, others made the inevitable comparisons to Hillary Clinton – another candidate with a marked "enthusiasm gap" between donors and voters, who has run for president and lost before, yet is propped up by the media as the surefire winner. And some took time out from gawking to worry about his health, since political speeches don't normally cause visible injury. "Does Biden have a blood clot in his left eye?" wondered one user. "This can't be good news, given his health history," noted another. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False
367	nationalreview	right_bias	2018-03-28	First, unlike smoking, energy is a basic good.	But the phenomenon is primarily a California-centric one.	In North Carolina v. Tennessee Valley Authority, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit dismissed a common-law nuisance action on the grounds that "there is a distinction between an activity that is merely not illegal versus one that is explicitly granted a permit to operate in a particular fashion."	As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes, while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies' alleged accountability for rising sea levels, they fall into two essential categories.	This is the usual category for environmental-harm suits, the same legal theory by which localities have sued over lead pollution, water pollution, and the like.		Energy Companies Sued for Being Energy Companies Lawsuits are a poor way to make the tradeoff between abundant energy and environmental harm. Numerous jurisdictions are suing energy companies. Not for fraud or white-collar crime, but for the effects of climate change. Bill de Blasio, mayor of New York, recently added his city to the list — and also started to divest the city's pension funds from fossil-fuel companies. But the phenomenon is primarily a California-centric one. In an address at SXSW earlier this month, even Arnold Schwarzenegger joined the fray. Presumably, this will soon be a cause célèbre. But it is unlikely to succeed, and lawsuits are a poor way to address the environmental harms of energy production anyhow. As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes, while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies' alleged accountability for rising sea levels, they fall into two essential categories. San Francisco and Oakland allege "public nuisance," and are suing to win compensation for that nuisance. This is the usual category for environmental-harm suits, the same legal theory by which localities have sued over lead pollution, water pollution, and the like. It was also the basis for the successful legal action taken against lead-paint producers in the same area. According to Bookbinder the claim "simply requires demonstrating that the defendant contributed to a condition that constitutes an unreasonable interference with public rights." The other plaintiffs — namely, San Mateo County, Marin County, and Imperial Beach — are employing a much more scattershot strategy, not only in the number of defendants that they name (nearly 40), but in alleging "design defect, failure to warn, negligence, and trespass" in addition to public nuisance. This approach gives juries multiple routes to a ruling against the energy companies, but it could backfire, with so many claims being made against such a wide variety of defendants that none of the blows really land. So what's the problem? The Union of Concerned Scientists, the activist group that has spearheaded this push for legal action, has compared energy companies' behavior with that of tobacco companies decades ago. The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits. First, unlike smoking, energy is a basic good. Some form of energy is necessary to do just about anything, including to meet essential needs such as heating or cooling a home (which in some places is a genuine safety issue). There is an inherent tradeoff between affordable energy and environmental harm, and it makes no sense to ask judges and juries rather than elected legislators to strike the right balance. Second, a key allegation against cigarette companies was that they hid and denied the harms of smoking, but the parallel allegations against the energy companies are contradictory. We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels — and yet publicly available, industry-funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing. For instance, San Mateo County's lawsuit notes that Exxon made its climate findings public in peer-reviewed science journals by 1982. Another obstacle is the fact that energy companies have government-granted permits to do what they do, a fact that some courts have found highly relevant. In North Carolina v. Tennessee Valley Authority, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit dismissed a common-law nuisance action on the grounds that "there is a distinction between an activity that is merely not illegal versus one that is explicitly granted a permit to operate in a particular fashion." The opinion further notes, citing New England Legal Foundation v. Costle, that "courts traditionally have been reluctant to enjoin as a public nuisance activities which have been considered and specifically authorized by the government." Local lawsuits also struggle to address the global scope of the climate-change problem. According to a study that is often drawn upon to make the case for liability, the two largest contributors to the rise in CO2 emissions since 1980 are Saudi Aramco and Gazprom: the state-owned oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Russia. The initial San Mateo suit did name Statoil, a company majority-owned by the Norwegian government, as a defendant, but even this was dropped in an effort to keep the case in state, as opposed to federal, court. As the eminent legal scholar Richard Epstein puts it, "If you're going to need a system of regulation, you can do that in a thousand different ways, but erratic, independent lawsuits in separate courts by separate people is the wrong way to go." This approach is likely to cause backlash that derails real, sustainable reforms to protect the environment.	False
44	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-03-13	org.	(RELATED: Thousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests)"We have the right to live our dreams and hopes," the letter continues.	org, an international environmental group, is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video.	"Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	Now we will make our voices heard."350.		Kids Around The World Are Using Climate Change As An Excuse To Skip School Young students across the world plan to skip class on Friday, claiming that they will devote the day to protesting man-made climate change. Students from more than 70 countries will skip class on Friday, March 15 to demand that their governments take more action on addressing climate change, according to #FridaysForFuture, a youth-led movement that is behind the strike. Tens of thousands of students will reportedly take part in the event." e will no longer accept this injustice. We demand justice for all past, current and future victims of the climate crisis, and so we are rising up," read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian, claiming they would be protesting on "every continent" on Friday. "Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world. Now we will make our voices heard."350. org, an international environmental group, is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video. Activists are hoping to closely mirror the youth-led March For Our Lives protests in Washington, D.C., which took place nearly a year ago following the fatal Parkland, Florida school shooting, and spark more debate among lawmakers about the dangers of climate change. Activists in the U.S. are making similar demands that are found in Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal: a swift transition to 100 percent renewable energy, a complete abolition of fossil fuels and other environmental mandates. The group strongly references the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's 2018 report, which claims the world only has a few year to dramatically reduce carbon emissions or else face dire environmental consequences. (RELATED: Thousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests)"We have the right to live our dreams and hopes," the letter continues. "Climate change is already happening. People did die, are dying and will die because of it, but we can and will stop this madness." The protesters in Washington, D.C., will enjoy the presence of one well-known adult figure: Minnesota Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar. The freshman Democrat, who has made national headlines recently for a slew of anti-Semitic remarks, says she will attend the strike along with her 16-year old daughter, Isra Hirsi, an organizer of the protest. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
473	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-12-04	his is going to be the Great Society, the moon shot, the civil rights movement of our generation," she said.	"That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require."	Bernie Sanders Stakes Out Forceful Climate Stance, Leapfrogging The 2020 Field Speakers included 350. org founder Bill McKibben, The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones, activist and "Big Little Lies" star Shailene Woodley, climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel, activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinez and Mayor Dale Ross of deep-red Georgetown, Texas, whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism.	Rep.-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), who has made championing a so-called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington, emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday."	In the 2016 presidential election, Sanders staked out the most ambitious climate platform of any candidate, vowing to slash carbon dioxide pollution 40 percent by 2030, end fossil fuel subsidies and ban fracking.		Bernie Sanders Stakes Out Forceful Climate Stance, Leapfrogging The 2020 Field Speakers included 350. org founder Bill McKibben, The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones, activist and "Big Little Lies" star Shailene Woodley, climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel, activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinez and Mayor Dale Ross of deep-red Georgetown, Texas, whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism. Rep.-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), who has made championing a so-called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington, emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday." his is going to be the Great Society, the moon shot, the civil rights movement of our generation," she said. "That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require." In the 2016 presidential election, Sanders staked out the most ambitious climate platform of any candidate, vowing to slash carbon dioxide pollution 40 percent by 2030, end fossil fuel subsidies and ban fracking. Despite stark policy differences with his chief rival in the primaries ― former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton supported fracking and raised twice as much from the oil and gas industry as her Republican opponent ― climate change remained a policy backwater in the election.	False
576	dailymail	questionable_source	2018-12-03	Climate Change.	It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'.	'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change,' said Joseph Curtin, a senior fellow at the IIEA.	It read: 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement - including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change - or push action further down the road.	This gathering has been pegged as the most influential since the 2015 ratification of the Paris Agreement.		Trump's words and actions threaten to derail climate change efforts Donald Trump is threatening to derail climate change efforts with his persistent denial of global warming, claim scientists. Pulling the US from the Paris Agreement has opened the flood gates as several others, including Russia and Turkey, follow his lead. Trump removed the US, the second greatest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the world, from the Paris Agreement as one of his first major presidential acts. One expert has published a study and said that the withdrawal of the US from the 2015 Paris Agreement as well as Trump's ill-informed remarks on climate change could have long-lasting and severe ramifications.A United Nations-sponsored climate summit in Poland has kicked off today which brings together experts from around the world as leading figures in the UN claim our planet has reached a 'crossroads'. They say the next two years are crucial to our success if we are to successfully halt global warming.A study, from the Institute of International and European Affairs, says Trump's decision has created the 'moral and political cover for others to follow suit' in leaving the agreement. It also claims it has soured the atmosphere and damaged goodwill in the international arena.'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change,' said Joseph Curtin, a senior fellow at the IIEA.'There's absolutely no doubt that the Trump effect has created a sense of uncertainty in terms of the political commitment to achieve anything close to a 2°C target.'The Paris Agreement, which was first signed in 2015, is an international agreement to control and limit climate change. It hopes to hold the increase in the global average temperature to below 2°C (3.6°F) 'and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C (2.7°F)'Sir David Attenborough will be in attendance in the 'people's seat' to represent the people who are affected by global warming. He gave a speech at the opening ceremony of the summit and said: ''We are facing a man-made disaster of global scale.'Our greatest threat in thousands of years. Climate Change.'The Conference of the Parties (COP) comes shortly after the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) announced the intention to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C. This gathering has been pegged as the most influential since the 2015 ratification of the Paris Agreement. It claimed that to achieve this goal, governments around the world would have to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 45 per cent by 2030. Four influential previous presidents of the talks called for decisive action to reach these targets. They said the planet sits at a 'crossroads' and urged action to cut emissions and reach Paris targets. Antonio Guterres, UN Secretary-General, said this period of time is 'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.A statement from the former chiefs came a day before the summit was scheduled to begin and is a highly unusual move. It earmarked the next two years as a key opportunity to help halt climate change. It read: 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement - including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change - or push action further down the road.'Any delay will only make it harder and more expensive to respond to climate change.'The statement was issued by Frank Bainimarama of Fiji, Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco, Laurent Fabius of France and Manuel Pulgar Vidal of Peru. In a report released ahead of the climate summit in Poland, the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) pointed out that the 20 warmest years on record have been in the past 22 years. It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'. The UN agency said in its provisional report that 'the past four years - 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 - are also the four warmest years in the series'.	False
450	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-05-24	Ignore," distort, or censor.	Three options were reportedly presented in the memo: The first was to conduct  "red team/blue team" debates to "highlight uncertainties" in climate data; the second was to review scientific studies under the Administrative Procedure Act; and the final option was to simply "ignore, and not seek to characterize or question, the science being conducted by Federal agencies and outside entities."	We need a vision and a plan to #ActOnClimate, not willful ignorance.	Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change.	The report's lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human-caused climate change."		White House Officials Reportedly Considered Just 'Ignoring' New Climate Research The Trump administration spent time last year mulling over what its public position on climate science should be — and, according to a report published Wednesday by The Washington Post, outrightly "ignoring" new research was one option that officials considered. Citing an internal memo drafted in September by President Donald Trump's then-top energy and environmental aide, Michael Catanzaro, the Post reported that White House officials had discussed whether to "consider having a firm position on and a coherent, fact-based message about climate science ― specifically, whether, and to what extent, anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases are affecting the climate system, and what level of concern that warrants." Three options were reportedly presented in the memo: The first was to conduct  "red team/blue team" debates to "highlight uncertainties" in climate data; the second was to review scientific studies under the Administrative Procedure Act; and the final option was to simply "ignore, and not seek to characterize or question, the science being conducted by Federal agencies and outside entities." No formal policy ever did materialize from the memo or subsequent discussions on the issue. Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt was reportedly an advocate of holding "red team/blue team" debates to publicly critique climate science, but that idea was ultimately blocked by the White House, reported The New York Times in March. As the Post noted, the Catanzaro memo offers a glimpse into the challenges faced by the Trump administration on the issue of climate change. While White House officials continue to publicly downplay climate data and adopt policies to expand fossil fuel production in the U.S., federal agencies have continued to publish research showing that climate change is real, man-made and a growing threat to the U.S. On Friday, for instance, the National Park Service published a report that said the effects of climate change, like rising sea levels and intensifying storms, could damage park sites across the country. The report's lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human-caused climate change." gnoring the overwhelming evidence only sets us back further in addressing this serious threat," said Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.)." Ignore," distort, or censor. Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change. Unacceptable and immoral. We need a vision and a plan to #ActOnClimate, not willful ignorance.  — Senator Jeff Merkley (@SenJeffMerkley) May 24, 2018	False
339	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-07-28	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	While advocates of climate common sense are pleased with the recent court decisions, the acceptance that humans are causing dangerous climate change by the oil and gas defendants is very disappointing.	Steve Goreham is a speaker on the environment, business, and public policy and author of the book Outside the Green Box: Rethinking Sustainable Development.	As Judge Alsup noted in his opinion, "No plaintiff has ever succeeded in bringing a nuisance claim based on global warming."	It's clear that climate lawsuits do not reflect the will of congressional representatives elected by the American people.		All These Climate Change Lawsuits Will Be Thrown Out Last week, a federal judge dismissed New York City's climate change lawsuit against five major oil companies. Last month, another federal judge dismissed similar global warming claims against oil firms brought by San Francisco and Oakland. More than a dozen climate lawsuits filed during the last year by cities and counties seek billions of dollars in damages from oil and gas companies. But it appears that all of these lawsuits will eventually be thrown out. New York City sought monetary damages from BP, Chevron, Conoco-Phillips, ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell as compensation for damage caused by dangerous global warming allegedly caused by the companies. But John F. Keenan, District Court judge for the Southern District of New York, disagreed and dismissed the complaint. Judge Keenan ruled that, "…it would thus be illogical to allow the City to bring state law claims when courts have found that these matters are areas of federal concern that have been delegated to the Executive Branch as they require a uniform, national solution…Global warming and solutions thereto must be addressed by the other two branches of government." On June 25 on the west coast, US District Judge William Alsup threw out similar suits brought by the California cities of Oakland and San Francisco. Judge Alsup stated, "…it is true that carbon dioxide released from fossil fuels has caused (and will continue to cause) global warming. But against that negative, we must weigh this positive: Our industrial revolution and the development of our modern world have literally been fueled by oil and coal. Without those fuels, virtually all of our monumental progress would have been impossible." Judge Alsup concluded that the courts should "defer to the legislative and executive branches." Note that Judge Alsup is not a conservative judge. Alsup was nominated by President Bill Clinton in 1999. In January, he blocked Trump Administration efforts to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Several other climate lawsuits are pending in California. In July of last year, San Mateo County, Marin County, and Imperial Beach filed separate suits against 37 oil and gas companies in California Superior Court. Last December, Santa Cruz and Santa Cruz County also brought suits in California Superior Court against 29 companies. In January, the City of Richmond, California and the County of Contra Costa also filed claims against 29 companies. Other state entities also initiated legal action this year. In April, the city of Boulder, Boulder County and San Miguel County filed a suit in Colorado against Exxon and Suncor. In May, King County Washington, the home of Seattle, filed suit against five companies. Just this month, the state of Rhode Island and the City of Baltimore filed separate climate change suits against oil and gas companies. But all of these suits are likely to be thrown out. The New York City and the Oakland/San Francisco suits, the lawsuits with the highest profile, have now been dismissed. As Judge Alsup noted in his opinion, "No plaintiff has ever succeeded in bringing a nuisance claim based on global warming." All district or appellate courts are likely to eventually rule that climate change issues are to be decided by the federal government, not state and local governments. It's clear that climate lawsuits do not reflect the will of congressional representatives elected by the American people. In December of 1998, President Bill Clinton signed the Kyoto Protocol, a 1997 international treaty signed by 192 nations committing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But the US Senate passed a resolution of disapproval with a vote of 95-0, so the treaty was never submitted to the Senate for ratification. Cap and trade legislation was rejected by Congress in 2003, 2005, 2007, and 2009. Last week the US House of Representatives passed a resolution opposing a carbon tax. While advocates of climate common sense are pleased with the recent court decisions, the acceptance that humans are causing dangerous climate change by the oil and gas defendants is very disappointing. Evidence shows that natural factors, not emissions from industry, dominate global temperatures. Nor are the feared climate disasters happening. Evidence shows that storms, droughts, or floods are neither more frequent nor more severe than in past decades. Oceans are rising 7-8 inches per century, not the 20 feet per century predicted by former Vice President Al Gore and others. And the polar bears are doing just fine.A simple example is the question of snow extent. The Boulder, Colorado lawsuit alleges that warming caused by oil companies is "reducing the snowpack" in Colorado mountains. While some areas have received less snow, satellite data from the Rutgers University Global Snow lab shows that both North American and Northern Hemisphere snow extent has been increasing for the last 40 years. Like most efforts to "fight climate change," climate lawsuits are a massive waste of taxpayer money. Cities, counties, and states are spending millions of dollars on futile public nuisance lawsuits that are doomed to failure. Steve Goreham is a speaker on the environment, business, and public policy and author of the book Outside the Green Box: Rethinking Sustainable Development. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False
738	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-04-27	This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle."	"This is not a red or a blue issue," he said.	At the rally, Markey said Trump's actions were precisely why hundreds of thousands of people felt compelled to take to the streets."	Climate change is real."	r President, start listening to the people and the scientists, not the greed of the fossil fuel industry," Sanders said at a rally on Capitol Hill, where he was flanked by environmental advocates and two of his Democratic colleagues, Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon, who authored the bill, and Ed Markey of Massachusetts."		Bernie Sanders takes aim at Trump on climate ahead of march in DC As protesters prepare for nationwide demonstrations against Donald Trump's environmental agenda, Bernie Sanders on Thursday backed legislation that would phase out the use of fossil fuels in the US by 2050." r President, start listening to the people and the scientists, not the greed of the fossil fuel industry," Sanders said at a rally on Capitol Hill, where he was flanked by environmental advocates and two of his Democratic colleagues, Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon, who authored the bill, and Ed Markey of Massachusetts." s you all know," the Vermont senator and former presidential candidate told the crowd, "Donald Trump is wrong about a lot of things. But there is no area where he is more wrong than on the issue of climate change." Sanders added: "No, Mr President, climate change is not a hoax. Climate change is real." At the event, held just outside the US Capitol, Sanders, Merkley and Markey unveiled legislation which seeks to completely phase out the use of fossil fuels through a transition to 100% clean and renewable energy by the middle of this century. But the bill, called the 100 by '50 Act, is unlikely to be considered by a Republican-controlled Congress, where many GOP lawmakers are still unwilling to acknowledge the science behind global warming and contribution of human activity. The partisan nature of the debate was not lost on the audience, as one attendee interrupted the proceedings to ask: "Where are the Republicans?""We're going to have to recruit those colleagues across the aisle," said Merkley, who ranks among the Senate's most progressive voices. "This is not a red or a blue issue," he said. "There is no excuse for failure. This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle." Demonstrators are set to gather in Washington for the People's Climate March on Saturday, which will also mark the 100th day of the Trump administration. Similar marches are expected in major cities across the US, as part of a broader effort to oppose Trump's efforts to roll back the climate initiatives put in place by Barack Obama. The president has signaled his intentions to tear up the landmark Paris climate agreement, forged by more than 195 nations in late 2015, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28% over a decade. Trump's top aides, who are split on whether or not the US should remain part of the Paris accord, were scheduled to meet on Thursday afternoon to discuss the deal's future. Trump's chief of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, is a vocal proponent of pulling out immediately. Trump has vowed to withdraw from the Paris agreement, and has already taken steps through executive action to begin the process of overturning Obama-era environmental regulations. Among them was a directive to the EPA to dismantle the Clean Power Plan, one of Obama's signature climate policies to reduce carbon pollution from power plants. Trump also signed an executive order that aims to unravel the Obama rule designed to protect American waterways from pollution, and proposed in his budget draconian cuts to the EPA. At the rally, Markey said Trump's actions were precisely why hundreds of thousands of people felt compelled to take to the streets." onald Trump [is] still saying that he's going to issue a new executive order allowing for more oil drilling on the public lands of the United States of America," he said, drawing jeers for the president from the crowd. "That is just completely and totally unacceptable."	False
516	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-07-20	Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that "the value of life on earth is priceless" and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is "too expensive" to prevent extinction."	The proposed change to the ESA includes a narrowing of the definition of "foreseeable future".	Who knows what a frog is worth?"	Because who knows what a snail is worth?	In a significant reversal, the proposed change would eliminate language that precludes wildlife experts from considering economic impacts when determining when an organism should be listed.		The cost of Trump's Endangered Species Act proposal The Trump administration has proposed changes to the Endangered Species Act (ESA), a law credited with keeping hundreds of species from going extinct. The change would eliminate automatic protections for threatened plant and animal species, and make it easier for species to be removed from the list. Wildlife conservation groups say the proposed change could have disastrous lasting effects on at-risk species. Trump officials say the change will streamline the regulatory process. The proposed change is the latest in a series of White House efforts to remove environmental regulations designed to protect vulnerable species and their habitats, as well as leave untouched some of America's most wild places. Environmentalist groups have reacted with outrage, and the Center for Biological Diversity said "these proposals would slam a wrecking ball into the most crucial protections for our most endangered wildlife"." If these regulations had been in place in the 1970s, the bald eagle and the grey whale would be extinct today." The Endangered Species Act was signed into law in 1973 by Republican President Richard Nixon and now protects more than 1,200 plant and animal species. The list of species is maintained by US Fish and Wildlife and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which oversees marine species. It has been credited with reviving bald eagle populations and bringing the Yellowstone grizzly bear back from the edge of extinction. Here are several species that could be affected by the change, or may not currently exist if it was not for the landmark law. Experts agree that arctic sea ice - which polar bears require for fishing and hunting - is shrinking, which is leading to enormous stresses on the world's largest bear species. The proposed change to the ESA includes a narrowing of the definition of "foreseeable future". The US government says they want the language clarified to "make it clear that it extends only as far as [wildlife officials] can reasonably determine that both the future threats and the species' response to those threats are probable". Environmentalists fear the new language will make it possible for government biologists to disregard the long-term effects of climate change on the environment. The polar bear could be emblematic of many species being affected by climate change, says Bob Dreher of the environmental group Defenders of Wildlife. Whether government biologists will recognise "this slow-acting but inevitable change in ecosystem because of climate change" or wait until more evidence is available is unclear, he tells the BBC. The ESA provides blanket protections to species which are categorised as either "threatened" - such as the California gnatcatcher - or "endangered". Endangered species are those likely to go extinct, while threatened species are those likely to become endangered. Under current law, both are granted "critical habitat" protections, but the Trump administration wants automatic protections for threatened species to be eliminated and, in the future, to be considered on a case by case basis. Protections for the California gnatcatcher have barred development across nearly 100,000 acres of land in the Greater Los Angeles area, according to the Los Angeles Times. If not for their current protections, their native habitat would likely become part of more urban sprawl. The sage grouse has been a candidate for protection as a threatened species for nearly a decade, but it is unclear if it will ever be added. They, as well as the dunes sagebrush lizard, have seen their territory encroached upon by human development and have seen decreasing populations in recent years. The distinctive sage grouse return to their breeding grounds, known as Leks, every year. Biologists believe some Leks can be hundreds of years old. If the sage grouse does achieve threatened status, environmentalists fear under the new Trump proposal it would be too late for them to gain the broad protections they need. Although the proposed change would only affect future creatures joining the list, Mr Dreher says that if the proposed rules had been in effect in the 1970s, animals such as wolves and bald eagles may have been extinct by now. In a significant reversal, the proposed change would eliminate language that precludes wildlife experts from considering economic impacts when determining when an organism should be listed. Wolves, which were re-introduced in the lower 48 states, have faced criticism from ranchers and farmers who argue that they have impacted their livelihood by killing their livestock. Re-introducing them to the continental US came at great cost and effort, says Mr Dreher, a former US Fish and Wildlife official. Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that "the value of life on earth is priceless" and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is "too expensive" to prevent extinction." If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing. Because who knows what a snail is worth? Who knows what a frog is worth?"	False
265	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-12-13	Former Vice President Al Gore said Wednesday: 'Brilliant decision for @TIME to choose @GretaThunberg as its Person of the Year.	The teen girl with Asperger's syndrome is the face of the youth climate movement, drawing large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences since last year.	The 16-year-old, who was named Time magazine's 'Person of The Year', updated her Twitter bio on Thursday to read: 'A teenager working on her anger management problem.	'Her bio was a verbatim echo of Trump's tweet about her earlier in the day, in which he reacted to news that the publication had awarded the accolade to Thunberg instead of him.	''For sounding the alarm about humanity's predatory relationship with the only home we have, for bringing to a fragmented world a voice that transcends backgrounds and borders, for showing us all what it might look like when a new generation leads, Greta Thunberg is TIME's 2019 Person of the Year,' the media franchise said Wednesday on its website.		Donald Trump mocks teen global warming hero Greta Thunberg Global warming activist Greta Thunberg has trolled President Trump after he told the teen to 'chill' and 'work on her anger management problems'. The 16-year-old, who was named Time magazine's 'Person of The Year', updated her Twitter bio on Thursday to read: 'A teenager working on her anger management problem. Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend.'Her bio was a verbatim echo of Trump's tweet about her earlier in the day, in which he reacted to news that the publication had awarded the accolade to Thunberg instead of him.'So ridiculous,' the Commander-in-chief wrote. 'Greta must work on her Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta, Chill!'Thousands of Twitter users rushed to applaud Thunberg after she changed her bio to mock the President. Many praised the teenager for outmaneuvering Trump on Twitter - who is widely seen as one of the platform's most skillful and effective users. By lunchtime the hashtag #GretaOutdidTrump was trending on the social media platform, with one popular response reading: 'A 16-year old with Asperger's and non-native English speaker has better social and communications skills than the current President of the United States. And better Twitter game.'Another wrote: 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'. It's not the first time Thunberg has used her Twitter bio to deftly turn Trump's attacks back around. In September, Greta described herself as a 'very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future' after the President sarcastically said of her UN Speech: 'She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see.'Meanwhile, the President insists he wasn't petty about losing out as Time magazine's person of the year. When asked Wednesday if the White House had a comment about the Commander-in-chief losing the honor to Thunberg, White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Hogan Gidley emailed DailyMail. com: 'Huh?!?'Thunberg is the magazine's youngest-ever Person of the Year, a title that still sparks Internet curiosity one day each year despite the steep decline of magazine sales. The teen girl with Asperger's syndrome is the face of the youth climate movement, drawing large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences since last year. Her angry accusations that world leaders are failing the younger generation have made headlines, including her shouts of 'How dare you?' during the UN General Assembly this year. An image of her staring at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme. Trump has said he doesn't believe global warming is mainly caused by humans. During the 2016 campaign he claimed it was a 'hoax' promoted by China in order to gain economic advantage over the United States. The president has since withdrawn the U.S. from the Paris Climate Treaty. Time editor-in-chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show: 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year, coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'Politicians have mostly praised Thunberg and her movement as an important voice of her generation. Former Vice President Al Gore said Wednesday: 'Brilliant decision for @TIME to choose @GretaThunberg as its Person of the Year.'Greta embodies the moral authority of the youth activist movement demanding that we act immediately to solve the climate crisis. She is an inspiration to me and to people across the world,' Gore said. Felsenthal said Thunberg 'represents a broader generational shift in the culture,' adding: 'She embodies youth activism.'The magazine says: 'In the 16 months since, she has addressed heads of state at the U.N., met with the Pope, sparred with the President of the United States and inspired 4 million people to join the global climate strike on September 20, 2019, in what was the largest climate demonstration in human history.''For sounding the alarm about humanity's predatory relationship with the only home we have, for bringing to a fragmented world a voice that transcends backgrounds and borders, for showing us all what it might look like when a new generation leads, Greta Thunberg is TIME's 2019 Person of the Year,' the media franchise said Wednesday on its website.	False
310	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-06-27	'Americans want reliable energy that they can afford,' he said at a news conference.	Despite this, a report from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) said that the trend could potentially extend into the month of May.	The trend will happen sporadically throughout the next several years, says the IEEFA, as renewable energy becomes cheaper and the world's attention focuses on mitigating the effects of carbon-fueled climate change by turning away from fossil fuels.	Growth in both solar and wind power has been particularly stark with the former producing 48 times more electricity than it did a decade ago due to cheaper equipment and government incentives.	Coupled with a rise in renewables has been a trend of declining coal consumption.		The US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal for the first time ever in April In April, for the first time ever, the US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal in a single month. According to data from the US Energy Information Administration, hydroelectric dams, solar panels, and wind turbines generated 68.5 million megawatt-hours of energy during the month of April 2019. This was compared to 60 million megawatt-hours of energy produced from coal in the same month. The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry, which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy. The US has been shifting toward natural gas, which is not only cheaper than coal, but also emits less carbon dioxide. However, experts noted that several coal plants were down for routine maintenance in April, and the month saw an increase in wind generation and a drop in energy demand. This suggests that coal could easily take over from renewable sources in the following months. Despite this, a report from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) said that the trend could potentially extend into the month of May. The trend will happen sporadically throughout the next several years, says the IEEFA, as renewable energy becomes cheaper and the world's attention focuses on mitigating the effects of carbon-fueled climate change by turning away from fossil fuels. Growth in both solar and wind power has been particularly stark with the former producing 48 times more electricity than it did a decade ago due to cheaper equipment and government incentives. Coupled with a rise in renewables has been a trend of declining coal consumption. Last year, coal hit a nearly 40-year low in terms of proportional usage in the U.S. Coal has fallen out of favor in part due to decreasing costs of natural gas. In 2016, it was dethroned as the America's fuel of choice by natural gas, a feat aided in part by a thriving hydro-fracking industry that continues to pump abundant fossil fuels out of the Bakken Oil Shale in North Dakota. The Trump administration on Wednesday completed one of its biggest rollbacks of environmental rules, replacing a landmark Obama-era effort that sought to wean the nation's electrical grid off coal-fired power plants and their climate-damaging pollution. Environmental Protection Agency chief Andrew Wheeler, a former coal industry lobbyist, signed a replacement rule that gives states leeway in deciding whether to require efficiency upgrades at existing coal plants. Wheeler said coal-fired power plants remained essential to the power grid, something that opponents deny.'Americans want reliable energy that they can afford,' he said at a news conference. There's no denying 'the fact that fossil fuels will continue to be an important part of the mix,' he said.	False
369	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-12-10	org.	Initiative 1631, for example, was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country.	The idea that [a carbon fee is] the way out of this mess is something we need to be pushing back on."	Some conservatives have signed on to the idea, believing it to be a market-based approach to eliminating pollution.	(RELATED: Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administration's Event At UN Meeting)Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement, such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy.		Enviros Are Starting To Realize A Carbon Tax Won't Ever Happen The failure of carbon tax proposals to catch on in the U.S. — and around the world — is prompting environmentalists to give up hope of ever implementing it. Carbon fees were once considered an obvious next step in the country's multifaceted effort to reduce CO2 emissions. Congresswoman-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a rising star on the left, believes a carbon tax can be one part of her sweeping "Green New Deal." Some conservatives have signed on to the idea, believing it to be a market-based approach to eliminating pollution. Even a number of major energy companies have come forward in support of charging businesses for the amount of carbon they release into the atmosphere. However, carbon tax proposals have proven unsuccessful time and time again. Initiative 1631, for example, was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country. The bill — which called for a $15 fee on each metric ton of carbon emissions — was put to the test in Washington state during the 2018 midterm elections. Despite the state's Democratic lean and the governor's public backing, the measure was soundly rejected in November. It was the second time voters in the state had rejected a carbon fee. Such a proposal being rejected in a blue state doesn't bode well for activists who hope to see it implemented nationwide." f it can't pass in Washington state right now, I'm not sure that says that there's much of a pathway at this moment nationally," Washington Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley said of the outcome. Events across the Atlantic have only worsened prospects for carbon tax supporters. In the face of unprecedented protests, the French government has decided to suspend a planned gas tax. President Emmanuel Macros had originally proposed a slew of new carbon taxes intended to wean consumers off fossil fuels and transition to electric vehicles. The price hikes, however, triggered a wave of intense riots. The protests, which have lasted for weeks, have even become deadly. One man was caught on video over the weekend losing his hand to a grenade explosion." here's been a predominant conversation in Washington, D.C., that's been led by economists and politicos that have tried to frame a carbon tax as the only way," Evan Weber, a national political director for the Sunrise Movement, said to Politico. "It's proved time and time again to be not politically popular, and we haven't even priced the policy at where economists say it needs to be. The idea that [a carbon fee is] the way out of this mess is something we need to be pushing back on." (RELATED: Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administration's Event At UN Meeting)Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement, such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy. While many have expressed dissolution over the prospect of a carbon tax future, other green activists plan to keep charging forward with their own proposals. Supporters plan to introduce various carbon fee bills across state capitols in 2019, including Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, Maryland and New England. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
596	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-04-02	Global warming fail: Study finds melting sea ice is actually helping Arctic animals Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming, and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon-dioxide emissions, the world's animals will not be able to thrive.	"These conditions, plus the fact that the distribution of areas of melt ponds is increasing, can contribute to increased productivity in plant and animal life in the Arctic seas."	… this affords ample proof that new sources of warmth have been opened and give us leave to hope that the Arctic Seas may at this time be more accessible than they have been for centuries past, and that discoveries may now be made in them not only interesting to the advancement of science but also to the future intercourse of mankind and the commerce of distant nations."	This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical, Polar Biology," the press release said.	limate change is accompanies by more storms and more precipitation, and we must expect that more nutrients will be released from the surroundings into the melt ponds," said Professor Ronnie Glud of the Department of Biology at SDU.		Global warming fail: Study finds melting sea ice is actually helping Arctic animals Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming, and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon-dioxide emissions, the world's animals will not be able to thrive. While rising temperatures have certainly put a strain on species in some parts of the world, a new study by researchers at the University of Southern Denmark suggests animals in the Arctic region are thriving as because of higher global temperatures. According to a press release touting the study's new findings, warmer conditions have produced a larger number of life-sustaining "melt ponds" in Arctic waters." elt ponds provide more light and heat for the ice and the underlying water, but now it turns out that they may also have a more direct and potentially important influence on life in the Arctic waters," stated the press release." ats of algae and bacteria can evolve in the melt ponds, which can provide food for marine creatures. This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical, Polar Biology," the press release said. The researchers said nutrients are able to reach sea creatures in the Arctic more easily because of the melt ponds." limate change is accompanies by more storms and more precipitation, and we must expect that more nutrients will be released from the surroundings into the melt ponds," said Professor Ronnie Glud of the Department of Biology at SDU. "These conditions, plus the fact that the distribution of areas of melt ponds is increasing, can contribute to increased productivity in plant and animal life in the Arctic seas." Recent data released by scientists at NASA and the National Snow and Ice Data Center reveals sea ice in the Arctic and Antarctic regions are at their lowest recorded point since 1979, when satellite data first started estimating sea ice. About 2 million square km of Arctic sea ice are estimated to have been lost since 1979. Current data suggest about 14.28 million square km of sea ice remain. USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice "terrifying," but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective. As reported by Anthony Watts on his influential climate-change website Watts Up With That, the president of the Royal Society in London reported in 1817 significant reductions to arctic sea ice." t will without doubt have come to your Lordship's knowledge that a considerable change of climate, inexplicable at present to us, must have taken place in the Circumpolar Regions, by which the severity of the cold that has for centuries past enclosed the seas in the high northern latitudes in an impenetrable barrier of ice has been during the last two years, greatly abated. … this affords ample proof that new sources of warmth have been opened and give us leave to hope that the Arctic Seas may at this time be more accessible than they have been for centuries past, and that discoveries may now be made in them not only interesting to the advancement of science but also to the future intercourse of mankind and the commerce of distant nations."	False
233	npr	left_center_bias	2019-08-08	The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that.	To Slow Global Warming, U.N.	There's a growing consensus that a transition to a more plant-centered diet would help.	Scientists and economists have been studying the effects of our diets on the environment for years.	Together, those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions, including more than 40% of methane.		To Slow Global Warming, U.N. Warns Agriculture Must Change Humans must drastically alter food production to prevent the most catastrophic effects of global warming, according to a new report from the United Nations panel on climate change. The panel of scientists looked at the climate change effects of agriculture, deforestation and other land use, such as harvesting peat and managing grasslands and wetlands. Together, those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions, including more than 40% of methane. That's important because methane is particularly good at trapping heat in the atmosphere. And the problem is getting more severe." Emissions from agricultural production are projected to increase," the authors warn. "Delaying action" on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, they continue, "could result in some irreversible impacts on some ecosystems." This is the latest in a series of reports from the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The new report adds weight and detail to a warning put out by the same panel of scientists last fall, in which they sounded the alarm about the inadequacy of the pledges countries have made so far to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At that time, the panel broadly suggested that farmland would need to shrink and forests would need to grow to keep Earth from getting more than 1.5 degrees Celsius hotter than it was in the preindustrial era. Global temperatures have already risen about 1 degree Celsius in the past 150 years. To meet that temperature target, global greenhouse gas emissions will need to fall by 40% to 50% in the next decade. Scientists say the only way to achieve that reduction is to significantly increase the amount of land that's covered in trees and other vegetation and significantly reduce the amount of methane and other greenhouse gases that come from raising livestock such as cows, sheep and goats. The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that. For example, for countries that have lost tree cover in the past century, reforestation can help suck greenhouse gases out of the air, while also preventing soil from drying up. Reducing food waste can also help reduce a country's greenhouse gas footprint. Controlling emissions from agriculture is also a food-security issue. Greenhouse gases from food production create a vicious cycle: As Earth gets hotter, farming gets more difficult in many places, which forces farmers to clear more land to grow food." Climate change, including increases in frequency and intensity of extremes, has adversely impacted food security and terrestrial ecosystems, as well as contributed to desertification and land degradation in many regions," the report's authors write. If greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase, as they are doing today, it will exacerbate those challenges and eventually make it all but impossible to control global warming without creating serious food shortages. The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum: how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture, deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally. Scientists and economists have been studying the effects of our diets on the environment for years. There's a growing consensus that a transition to a more plant-centered diet would help. Currently, about 50% of the globe's vegetated land is dedicated to agriculture — and about 30% of cropland is used to grow grain for animal feed. Given how much land it takes to grow food to feed livestock, meat production is a leading cause of deforestation.A report released last month by the World Resources Institute finds that if current dietary patterns continue, an additional 593 million hectares — which is almost twice the size of India — would be needed to feed the projected 9.8 billion people (the anticipated population) by 2050. Right now, agriculture generates an estimated 25% of annual greenhouse gas emissions, according to the WRI; that's when you combine food production and the land-use changes associated with farming, such as clearing vegetation and plowing. If current trends continue, but agricultural productivity does not increase beyond 2010 levels, the WRI report concludes that most of the globe's remaining forests would need to be cleared to feed the world. And the globe would exceed the greenhouse gas emission targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	False
711	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-06-26	And to me, the answer is innovation."	But, to scientists, Koch remains a climate pariah who has learned how to temper his message for audiences who don't buy into the view that industry players are somehow more credible than impartial researchers."	Both can impact the relative financial attractiveness of future energy options."	"But the question is, 'What do we do about it, about whatever risk there is?'	"Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities, the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal."	These policies that the U.S. government has, others have proposed or promulgated, have been just symbolic," Koch said in the interview. <sep> 	Don't Be Fooled By The Gentler Tone Of Charles Koch's Climate-Change Denial "Obviously, if the temperature continues to go up, at some point it can be harmful or even very harmful," the billionaire Republican megadonor said during an interview last week on Freakonomics Radio. "But the question is, 'What do we do about it, about whatever risk there is?' And to me, the answer is innovation." On the face of it, that admission may seem like a shift coming from a man who, with his brother David, bankrolled a conservative movement bent on hacking away environmental regulations and helped transform the GOP into the only major political party in the developed world to deny the overwhelming evidence of manmade global warming. But, to scientists, Koch remains a climate pariah who has learned how to temper his message for audiences who don't buy into the view that industry players are somehow more credible than impartial researchers." t's just no longer credible to deny out of hand that climate change is happening or even that it's human-caused," Michael Mann, a climatologist at Penn State University and co-author of a new book on climate change denialism, told HuffPost on Monday. "So the forces of denial ― the special interests, the polluting interests ― have instead turned to a new talking point that they think they might be able to get away with." When you look at all the climate denial arguments, they're basically the flip of all that: It's not real, it's not us, it's not bad, the experts disagree or the experts are unreliable, and there's no hope, we can't fix it," Cook told HuffPost. "You expect them to be moving along that spectrum." But that reasoning ― which sounds measured compared to outright denial of observable phenomena ― has been employed for years to undermine climate science, and does not represent an evolution on the issue. The spectrum of climate science denialism, that argument included, has not changed much over the past two decades, according to a 2015 U.K. study analyzing 16,000 documents from conservative think tanks. The philosophical belief that, left alone, the free market will produce industries and technologies to curb climate change before it becomes catastrophic is flawed. Economist Milton Friedman, the so-called patron saint of laissez faire capitalism who popularized the belief that corporations should pursue profit and shareholder value above all, argued there is little incentive to preserve the environment without some form of government intervention." ou need a price on the emission of carbon if you're going to level the playing field," Mann said. "Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities, the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal." The most popular solution among economists is putting a tax on carbon emissions. In February, a group of Republican elder statesmen introduced a plan for a $40 carbon tax that would be returned to taxpayers in the form of a carbon dividend. A cadre of oil and gas giants, including Exxon Mobil Corp., endorsed the proposal earlier this month. But the proposition faces dim prospects of becoming law under the Trump administration, which has vowed to pump up the oil, gas and coal industries. Booming U.S. oil production ― bolstered by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, technology ― has helped keep oil prices low since they plummeted in mid-2014. The price per barrel now hovers just above $40. Without some incentive from policymakers to invest in zero-emissions energy such as wind, solar or hydropower, the world is likely to warm well past 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, by the end of the century. That temperature rise would drastically alter the climate, submerge coastal communities and could create up to 2 billion refugees." oth government policy and low-carbon technological innovations are going to be critical to keeping warming within 2C," James Leaton, research director at the U.K.-based financial think tank Carbon Tracker, told HuffPost by email. "Obviously policy and technology interact and cannot be seen in isolation ― with policy stimulating technological deployment, and rapid roll-out reducing the future level of policy required. Both can impact the relative financial attractiveness of future energy options." These policies that the U.S. government has, others have proposed or promulgated, have been just symbolic," Koch said in the interview. "We oppose all of these because they end up being cronyism. They end up helping certain wealthy people to the disadvantage of the less fortunate." Sometimes, the pot calls the kettle black. But in this case, the kettle is filled with a solution to clean up the greasy mess left behind by the pot. And the pot is a fossil fuel tycoon with a net worth roughly the size of Bulgaria's gross domestic product." t's one thing to be an ignorant fool, but it's quite something else to allow one's malicious ignorance to potentially threaten the entire planet," Mann said. "That is what is so pernicious about [Koch's] continued denial of the threat of climate change, and the extent to which they have been able to pollute our entire political discourse by using their political wealth to confuse the public and policymakers about the reality of this existential threat."	False
13	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-04-17	org.	reta Thunberg saw her power in us, and we in turn see our power in her," March for Our Lives co-founder Emma González wrote of Thunberg for TIME, adding that "Greta is inspiring steadfast students and shaming apathetic adults."	rosion of fertile topsoil, deforestation of the rainforest, toxic air pollution, loss of insects and wildlife, acidification of our oceans, these are all disastrous trends," said Thunberg, barely able to keep her tears back.	Climate change is our reality, and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it, and demand a change," González wrote.	TIME 100 List Includes 16-Year-Old Climate Activist Who Says A 'Sixth Mass Extinction' Is Upon Us TIME listed Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old climate change activist, on its list of the 100 most influential people of 2019.		TIME 100 List Includes 16-Year-Old Climate Activist Who Says A 'Sixth Mass Extinction' Is Upon Us TIME listed Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old climate change activist, on its list of the 100 most influential people of 2019. Thunberg, who says she has Asperger syndrome, gained prominence for ditching school every Friday to protest outside Swedish parliament. The teenager warned in a high-profile speech to the United Nations last year that "we need to keep the fossil fuels in the ground" or face catastrophe. Thousands of students in Europe and the U.S. ditched school to demand government action on climate change in February. American student activists, led by the daughter of Democratic Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar, demanded a Green New Deal, the legislation sponsored by New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez." reta Thunberg saw her power in us, and we in turn see our power in her," March for Our Lives co-founder Emma González wrote of Thunberg for TIME, adding that "Greta is inspiring steadfast students and shaming apathetic adults." Climate change is our reality, and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it, and demand a change," González wrote. Thunberg's prominence has only grown, as has the alarm of her message. Thunberg even met with Pope Francis, who issued an encyclical on global warming in 2015. (RELATED: Another Canadian Province Boots Liberals Out Of Power Over Carbon Taxes)Environmentalists, even some climate scientists, are increasingly promoting Thunberg's actions in an effort to draw more young people into climate activism. European politicians invited Thunberg to bring her call for urgent action on global warming to lawmakers."  want you to act as if the house was on fire," Thunberg said in a speech to European Parliament Tuesday." e are in the middle of the sixth mass extinction, and the extinction rate is 10,000 times faster than what is considered normal, with up to 200 species becoming extinct every single day," said a teary-eyed Thunberg." rosion of fertile topsoil, deforestation of the rainforest, toxic air pollution, loss of insects and wildlife, acidification of our oceans, these are all disastrous trends," said Thunberg, barely able to keep her tears back. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
676	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-10	hese people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this time," he added, referring to the Trump administration.	"To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator."	The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor.	Scientists say the frequency and severity of natural disasters like these are linked to climbing global temperatures.	But record-breaking heat baked the West in July and August, drying its woodlands and leaving it vulnerable to the sort of blaze now engulfing the wine-producing region neighboring San Francisco."		Trump Axes Climate Plan As The World Burns Wildfires are raging through California's wine country. Flooded homes in Houston, Texas, are still rotting. Puerto Ricans are languishing in darkness, collecting drinking water from streams. And South Florida and the U.S. Virgin Islands were still picking through the rubble, as yet another hurricane made landfall over the mouth of the Mississippi River. Scientists say the frequency and severity of natural disasters like these are linked to climbing global temperatures. But the Trump administration on Tuesday announced plans to repeal the United States' only major policy to combat climate change. The Clean Power Plan ― a set of Obama-era regulations aimed at slashing emissions from coal-fired power plants and boosting renewable energy production ― had yet to go into effect, after being temporarily blocked by the Supreme Court since February 2016. On Tuesday afternoon, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt ― who sued to halt the plan last year when he was Oklahoma's attorney general ― released a proposal to eliminate the policy without any replacement, leaving the country without a national strategy to adapt to global warming. Rain soaked the state last winter, stacking its mountains with colossal snowdrifts and quenching soil left parched after more than half a decade of historic drought. But record-breaking heat baked the West in July and August, drying its woodlands and leaving it vulnerable to the sort of blaze now engulfing the wine-producing region neighboring San Francisco." hese people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this time," he added, referring to the Trump administration. Following an exceptionally hot summer, 172 fires ― 78 of which qualified as "large" incidents according to the National Interagency Fire Center ― burned more than 8 million acres in western Montana and the Pacific Northwest. That's almost double the 10-year average of 5.5 million acres. Elsewhere, a spate of fierce hurricanes inundated parts of the South and Caribbean. Warmer oceans tend to exacerbate storms and shift their directions. After Hurricane Harvey dumped 30 inches of rain on Houston in August, scientists warned that the Category 4 storm served as a teachable example of the type of weather event their models predict will become more common as the planet continues to warm. The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor. Hurricane Irma rampaged through the Caribbean before slamming into Florida as a Category 5 beast, knocking out power for millions and ultimately killing 69 people. Less than two weeks later, Hurricane Maria pummeled Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, crippling the U.S. territories' power grids and leaving whole areas uninhabitable. In Puerto Rico, which has a larger population than 21 U.S. states, the death toll continues to climb, hitting 39 this week as the island's aging utility struggles to rebuild electrical transmission wires. But the proposal to scrap the policy without any kind of replacement to curb greenhouse gases underscores the extent to which the Trump administration's refusal to acknowledge basic climate science is leaving the country vulnerable to global warming effects that are no longer theoretical." t is crazy to think about having an EPA administrator who has nothing to offer in replacement of an admittedly not-so-good regulatory solution," former Rep. Bob Inglis (R-S.C.), now the executive director of the conservative environmental advocacy group RepublicEn, told HuffPost by phone on Tuesday. "To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator."	True
381	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-10-08	But don't expect to hear that from many other media outlets, especially those that often cite individual weather events as evidence of man-made warming.	Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data.	For example, The Washington Post's write-up of the IPCC's report focused on the mainline findings — namely, that "the world is woefully off target" to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	(RELATED: It's The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming … Until The Next Chance)When it comes to droughts, for example, the IPCC admits there is "low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale.	For example, the IPCC's report noted that "there is only low confidence regarding changes in global tropical cyclone numbers under global warming over the last four decades."		UN's New Report Shows There's 'Little Basis' For A Favorite Claim Of Climate Activists The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Change's (IPCC) newly-released climate report, once again, found little to no evidence global warming caused many types of extreme weather events to increase." he IPCC once again reports that there is little basis for claiming that drought, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes have increased, much less increased due to" greenhouse gases, University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke, Jr. tweeted Sunday night. For example, the IPCC's report noted that "there is only low confidence regarding changes in global tropical cyclone numbers under global warming over the last four decades." Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data. Much like the IPCC's 2013 climate assessment, the new special report confirmed what Pielke and others have said for years about the relationship between global warming and extreme weather. But don't expect to hear that from many other media outlets, especially those that often cite individual weather events as evidence of man-made warming. For example, The Washington Post's write-up of the IPCC's report focused on the mainline findings — namely, that "the world is woefully off target" to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. The New York Times highlighted the IPCC's warning of "a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires, and a mass die-off of coral reefs as soon as 2040." Neither WaPo nor NYT mentioned the report's findings on extreme weather. The IPCC's new report is meant to sound the alarm on global warming ahead of the UN climate summit, which is to be held in Poland this December. Delegates are expected to make further commitments to implement the Paris climate accord that calls for limiting future warming below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100. Aside from dire predictions, however, the IPCC's new report also noted that many types of extreme weather events are not getting worse. (RELATED: It's The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming … Until The Next Chance)When it comes to droughts, for example, the IPCC admits there is "low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale. The report says there are "likely to be trends in some regions of the world," including increasing droughts in the Mediterranean and decreasing droughts in parts of North America. The IPCC also noted there is "low confidence due to limited evidence, however, that anthropogenic climate change has affected the frequency and the magnitude of floods." The report added that "streamflow trends since 1950 are non-statistically significant in most of the world's largest rivers." However, the report's authors warned that future warming could exacerbate extreme weather and hurt the global economy. The report's authors also claimed extreme weather had already increased, contrary to much of their own evidence." ne of the key messages that comes out very strongly from this report is that we are already seeing the consequences of 1 [degree Celsius] of global warming through more extreme weather, rising sea levels and diminishing Arctic sea ice, among other changes," Panmao Zhai, an IPCC co-chair, said in a statement issued Sunday.	False
556	breitbart	questionable_source	2018-06-15	The Council argues in favor of finding ways to "humanely stabilize population" as a means of mitigating the effects of global warming."	Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions, however, the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal: population control.	Humanity must "restore a safe level of greenhouse gas concentrations and global average temperatures well below today's levels and back to pre-industrial levels as quickly as possible," it states.	Climate change, population growth, and growing demand for food, energy and fresh water will incite "violent conflict over diminishing resources" by the year 2030, the document also forecasts with remarkable confidence.	he City of Berkeley calls on the United States of America to initiate a just national mobilization emergency effort to reverse global warming, which ends national greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and immediately initiates an effort to safely draw down carbon from the atmosphere," the text boldly proposes.		Williams: Berkeley Declares 'Climate Emergency' Worse Than World War II "The United States of America has disproportionately contributed to the climate and ecological crises and to preventing a transition away from fossil fuels, and Americans thus bear an extraordinary responsibility to solve the crises," the text reads. Apparently the six million Jews massacred during the Second World War, not to mention the other tens of millions of casualties, do not measure up to the overarching evils of climate change—at least in the minds of the Berkeley City Council. Droughts, famines, and diseases produced by global warming "have already killed millions of people in the Global South," the document announces, adding that the earth is "already too hot for safety and justice." The global economy's overshoot of ecological limits and, increasingly climate change, are driving a global fresh water scarcity crisis and the sixth mass extinction of species, which could devastate much of life on earth for the next ten million years," the resolution warns. To read through the text, one would think that global warming has been behind every catastrophe and uprising on the planet. Climate change "has been linked to the Syrian War, the rise of Boko Haram in Nigeria, as well as the famines, water shortages, and resulting conflict in Yemen, Somalia, and South Sudan," the document pronounces. Not only present evils, however, but future calamities are also prophesied with astounding exactitude and certainty. The collapse of the Greenland Ice Shelf, the resolution states, could result in "several billion climate refugees," or a substantial share of the entire population of the world. Climate change, population growth, and growing demand for food, energy and fresh water will incite "violent conflict over diminishing resources" by the year 2030, the document also forecasts with remarkable confidence. The antidote to the Council's doomsday predictions are to take the world back to pre-industrial levels of CO2 emissions, the text declares, conjuring images of bearded Amish people driving about in horse-drawn carriages. Humanity must "restore a safe level of greenhouse gas concentrations and global average temperatures well below today's levels and back to pre-industrial levels as quickly as possible," it states. Despite the Council's dire warnings, however, it turns out that scientists themselves are far less certain that Berkeley's elite council members. For instance, only 22 percent of the 1,862 American Meteorological Society (AMS) members surveyed in 2008 believe that "all" or a "large" amount of the damage caused by global warming could be prevented by taking measures to mitigate its effects. Moreover, the correlation between carbon dioxide emissions and climate warming seems anything but linear. Between 2002 and 2008, CO2 emissions increased from 24 billion tons to 29 billion. In that same period, the global temperature anomaly decreased from 0.62C to 0.52C. This fuzzy correlation between CO2 emissions and increase in global temperature raises the question of just what effect a radical decrease of carbon dioxide emissions would actually have on the planet. Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions, however, the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal: population control. The Council argues in favor of finding ways to "humanely stabilize population" as a means of mitigating the effects of global warming." he City of Berkeley calls on the United States of America to initiate a just national mobilization emergency effort to reverse global warming, which ends national greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and immediately initiates an effort to safely draw down carbon from the atmosphere," the text boldly proposes. While one can only have pity on local residents who must live under the heavy boot of the unhinged Berkeley City Council, the rest of the nation can offer a collective sigh of relief that their power extends no further.	False
883	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-12	Here are some of the highlights:Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti-Christian societyIf science was all about "consensus" we'd still be living in cavesGreens want to make life nasty, brutish and shortWhere's the evidence for climate catastrophe?	But you rarely hear it so trenchantly expressed by a former world leader – as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex-Prime Minister Tony Abbott in a hard-hitting, must-read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation.	Abbott's speech – which is causing Australia's notoriously left-wing media to explode like ripe watermelons struck by hollow-point bullets – ought to serve as a painful reminder to Australia's Liberal party of the talent they lost when they decided to knife this Jesuit-trained, Oxford-educated, rock-solid, family man conservative in the back and replace him with the slippery Davos-style globalist Turnbull.	This should always have been obvious.	Delingpole: Aussie ex-PM Abbott Slams Climate Change 'Religion' Some of us knew this already.		Delingpole: Aussie ex-PM Abbott Slams Climate Change 'Religion' Some of us knew this already. But you rarely hear it so trenchantly expressed by a former world leader – as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex-Prime Minister Tony Abbott in a hard-hitting, must-read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation. Abbott is one of only a handful of world leaders to have spoken out against the global warming "consensus." (The only other ones, recently, are former Czech president Václav Klaus and, of course, President Donald Trump). This gives you an idea of just how badly infected are the nations of the free world by the green virus. Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public. Abbott himself lost his job as Australia's prime minister at least in part because he was found guilty of wrongthink on climate change, which he once famously described as "crap". The man who replaced him as prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull – unfondly known as the "Honourable Member for Goldman Sachs" – is himself a leading tentacle of the Green Blob. Abbott's speech – which is causing Australia's notoriously left-wing media to explode like ripe watermelons struck by hollow-point bullets – ought to serve as a painful reminder to Australia's Liberal party of the talent they lost when they decided to knife this Jesuit-trained, Oxford-educated, rock-solid, family man conservative in the back and replace him with the slippery Davos-style globalist Turnbull. Here are some of the highlights:Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti-Christian societyIf science was all about "consensus" we'd still be living in cavesGreens want to make life nasty, brutish and shortWhere's the evidence for climate catastrophe? There's none in Australia, that's for sure…Contrary to the breathless assertions that climate change is behind every weather event, in Australia, the floods are not bigger, the bushfires are not worse, the droughts are not deeper or longer, and the cyclones are not more severe than they were in the 1800s. Sometimes, they do more damage but that's because there's more to destroy, not because their intensity has increased. More than 100 years of photography at Manly Beach in my electorate does not suggest that sea levels have risen despite frequent reports from climate alarmists that this is imminent.…But there's plenty of evidence that green lunacy is killing the Australian economyRenewables have more to do with virtue-signalling than with useful energyThere's a reason renewable energy is crap and it's so simple even lefties and greens should be able to understand itHydro aside, renewable energy should properly be referred to as intermittent and unreliable power. When the wind doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine, the power doesn't flow. Wind and solar power are like sailing ships; cheaper than powered boats, to be sure, but we've stopped using sail for transport because it couldn't be trusted to turn up on time. Because the weather is unpredictable, you never really know when renewable power is going to work. Its marginal cost is low but so is its reliability, so in the absence of industrial scale batteries, it always needs matching capacity from dependable coal, gas, hydro, or nuclear energy. This should always have been obvious. We think we're rational but where green policy is concerned we're little better than the AztecsOh and by the way, the way we're carrying on Western Civilization is on its way out…	False
725	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-04-07	We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of God's creation, including the complex, beautiful and life-sustaining planet earth.	in an op-ed published by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate change's role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer."	In 2012, he told Montana Public Radio he believes the climate is changing, but doubts how much humans are effecting it.	he simple moral truth is that United States is by far the world's largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it," they added.	e cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment," said the church leaders ― the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula; the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings; and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co-Cathedral."		Church Leaders Are Begging Their State's Senator To Give Up Global Warming Denial Four Christian church leaders in Montana are urging their state's Republican senator to quit rejecting the widely accepted science behind man-made global warming. The one Catholic priest and three Protestant clergy criticized Sen. Steve Daines (R-Mont.) in an op-ed published by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate change's role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer." e cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment," said the church leaders ― the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula; the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings; and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co-Cathedral." he simple moral truth is that United States is by far the world's largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it," they added. The church leaders slammed Daines for having the "audacity" to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm. Not unlike the years of public skepticism over smoking's role in lung cancer, many people still doubt the science behind global warming thanks to a decades-long campaign to seed doubt funded by companies with money at stake. Daines, who earned a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering before entering politics, received a paltry 3 percent lifetime score from the League of Conservation Voters, which ranks lawmakers by how they vote on environmental legislation. He did, however, earn a 16 percent score for last year. In 2012, he told Montana Public Radio he believes the climate is changing, but doubts how much humans are effecting it. We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of God's creation, including the complex, beautiful and life-sustaining planet earth.	True
91	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-09-23	twitter.	twitter.	The organizers said their goal was to "shut down the center of decision-making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production, and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy."	Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal, additional measures to protect indigenous people's land and a broad push toward climate justice.	pic.		Activists 'Shut Down D.C.' To Demand More Action On Climate Crisis Mark Wilson / Getty Images Climate change protesters block traffic during a protest to shut down Washington, D.C., on Sept. 23, 2019. Activists demanding a greater global response to climate change disrupted Monday morning commutes with protests in Washington, D.C. Ahead of the day's United Nations Climate Action Summit in New York, activists participated in "Shut Down D.C.," a coordinated act of civil disobedience designed to draw attention to the global climate crisis. A press release from the event's organizers said that Monday's protesters included labor organizations, the anti-war group Code Pink, Black Lives Matter and the environmental justice organization Rising Tide North America. Environmental activists gather in Washington on Monday during global climate action week. The organizers said their goal was to "shut down the center of decision-making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production, and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy." Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal, additional measures to protect indigenous people's land and a broad push toward climate justice. Pictures and videos posted to social media on Monday morning showed protesters halting traffic at a number of Washington intersections. D.C. police identified 14 locations that were blocked at some point, according to The Washington Post.I'm in downtown DC where climate activists with Extinction Rebellion have blocked the intersection of K and 16th streets with a big sailboat that says "rebel for life." @WTOP @WTOPtraffic #ShutDownDC pic. twitter. com/NWIO1aRvM3 — Alejandro Alvarez (@aletweetsnews) September 23, 2019Climate activists are shutting down major intersections throughout DC. Interstate 395 and New York Ave is closed. pic. twitter. com/JhjVBr1hU3 — Sam Sweeney (@SweeneyABC) September 23, 2019Monday's protests come on the heels of a worldwide "climate strike" on Friday, a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the "largest climate rally ever."	False
213	yahoonews	left_center_bias	2019-10-17	"They can sense that we are making an impact.	omething must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted," Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.	So they are using several methods to mock and hate."	Now what does he want?• None 'Five Eyes' in the dark: Will Trump and Barr destroy trust in U.S. intelligence?• None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president• None What my journey into homelessness taught me	It found that properties like Doral that are likely to be underwater in the coming years are already selling for 15 percent less than those where flooding is not a threat.		&#39;Climate change will not be on the agenda&#39; of next G-7, White House says While scientists continue to warn that climate change poses an existential threat to the planet, President Trump won't be talking about it at next year's G-7 summit at one of his Florida golf resorts." limate change will not be on the agenda," acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney told reporters gathered in the White House briefing room Thursday, without elaborating. Mulvaney announced that the G-7 meetings would be held on June 10 and 11 at the Trump National Doral Golf Club, just west of Miami, an area threatened by sea level rise brought on by climate change. With its low elevations and porous limestone bedrock, South Florida is particularly vulnerable to sea level rise. Despite warnings from the scientific community, developers including Trump have continued to invest in property that could be underwater before long." ust using the U.S. government projections, we could be at 11 to over 13 feet [of sea level rise] by the end of century," Harold Wanless, director of the University of Miami's geological sciences department and a leading expert on sea level rise, told Yahoo News. "There's only 3 percent of Miami-Dade County that's greater than 12 feet above sea level." Trump has labeled climate change a "hoax" concocted by the Chinese government in an attempt to ruin the U.S. economy, but not all members of the Republican Party agree. For the first time in a decade, Florida's state Senate held a meeting this week to discuss the impacts of climate change, the Miami Herald reported." here's a younger generation of conservatives in this state that aren't as much in denial," Republican Sen. Tom Lee, who chairs the Committee on Infrastructure and Security, told the Herald. Young climate activists like Sweden's Greta Thunberg have mobilized students around the world to hold school strikes to protest inaction from world leaders on what they see as a crisis." omething must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted," Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. "They can sense that we are making an impact. They obviously don't want that. So they are using several methods to mock and hate." While Trump continues to deny the threat that climate change poses to his own properties and the world at large, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco released a report Thursday on the financial risks that global warming poses. It found that properties like Doral that are likely to be underwater in the coming years are already selling for 15 percent less than those where flooding is not a threat. Even more jarring, the report warned that climate change poses a "threat to the availability of the 30-year mortgage in various vulnerable and highly exposed areas." Thanks to the continued buildup of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere due primarily to the use of fossil fuels, the rate at which the polar icecaps are melting continues to exceed previous estimates. As of Aug. 1 of this year, for instance, Greenland had lost a record 12.5 billion tons of ice. This year is on pace to become the second warmest on record, and all of the top 10 hottest years on record — with the exception of 1998 — have occurred since 2005. Download the Yahoo News app to customize your experience.• None Turkey's president Erdogan bluffed Trump out of Syria. Now what does he want?• None 'Five Eyes' in the dark: Will Trump and Barr destroy trust in U.S. intelligence?• None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president• None What my journey into homelessness taught me	False
46	foxnews	right_bias	2019-03-18	"This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible."	The researchers added: "Some examples briefly illustrated include 'snowmaggedon' in February 2010, Superstorm Sandy in October 2012 and supertyphoon Haiyan in November 2013, and, in more detail, the Boulder floods of September 2013, all of which were influenced by high sea surface temperatures that had a discernible human component."	We suggest that it is more useful to regard the extreme circulation regime or weather event as being largely unaffected by climate change, and question whether known changes in the climate system's thermodynamic state affected the impact of the particular event," stated one paper produced by researchers at the National Center for Atmospheric Research.	... We have to do it ourselves."	And it's incomprehensible to me that there's no sense of urgency from the federal government."		Bill de Blasio, pitching $10B climate change plan, blames global warming for Hurricane Sandy In a video posted to social media on Monday, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio again directly blamed climate change for 2012's deady Superstorm Sandy -- a contention that lacks scientific support - and touted his plan to spend $10 billion to fortify and "protect Lower Manhattan" against future storms. Even as local leaders warned that de Blasio's plan to construct new barriers would actually destroy the waterfront neighborhoods he says he wants to protect, de Blasio insisted his views were now mainstream among New Yorkers." After Sandy, there weren't a lot of climate change deniers left in New York City," de Blasio said directly into the camera, after reminding viewers that the storm left dozens dead and cost the city billions in economic losses. "We need to protect this city and this country, and this world, from global warming. There's no national policy to do it right now. ... We have to do it ourselves." Mayor de Blasio added in the video, which appeared on Facebook and Twitter, that the federal government also must act quickly: "We have to fight for the bigger changes, like the Green New Deal," de Blasio said. The mayor claimed that studies undertaken by his office and others has determined that if the city does not prepare for climate change, rising seas will expose 20 percent of lower Manhattan to daily flooding by 2100. However, past expert predictions on the effects of global warming have proven inaccurate at best. For example, United Nations scientists predicted that the world had only 10 years to immediately address climate change all the way back in 1989, in order to protect entire cities from destruction and a resulting flood of eco-refugees. A NASA scientist falsely predicted the same thing in 2006. Contrary to de Blasio's assertions, no study has defintively linked the existence or power of Superstorm Sandy to man-made climate change, or made the claim that such a link can be definitively established at all. Some contested studies have, however, suggested the storm may have become more intense to some degree as a result of warming sea temperatures." We suggest that it is more useful to regard the extreme circulation regime or weather event as being largely unaffected by climate change, and question whether known changes in the climate system's thermodynamic state affected the impact of the particular event," stated one paper produced by researchers at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. The researchers added: "Some examples briefly illustrated include 'snowmaggedon' in February 2010, Superstorm Sandy in October 2012 and supertyphoon Haiyan in November 2013, and, in more detail, the Boulder floods of September 2013, all of which were influenced by high sea surface temperatures that had a discernible human component." The Green New Deal backed by de Blasio has not attracted universal support even among Democrats, after the resolution's botched rollout in Congress earlier this year included the release of an official document by New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's office that promised economic security even for those "unwilling to work," as well as the elimination of "farting cows" and air travel. The Democratic mayor on Thursday first announced his plan to meet the "existential threat" of climate change, specifically by extending a section of the lower Manhattan coastline as much as 500 feet into the East River. He said the $10 billion effort to protect lower Manhattan from flooding by extending the shoreline between the Brooklyn Bridge and the Battery will be funded partly by private development if federal funds are not available. WHAT DOES TRUMP ADMIN'S OWN CLIMATE CHANGE REPORT SAY IS COMING?"If there's federal money in play, it probably looks one way," de Blasio said last week. "If there's not federal money in play, we have to get some private money into it and there has to be some development." Officials have been developing schemes to fortify New York City's waterfront since Superstorm Sandy destroyed thousands of homes and businesses in 2012. De Blasio said it will cost about $500 million to fortify most of lower Manhattan from future effects of climate change, including rising sea levels and intense precipitation, with grassy berms and removable barriers. But planners determined that protecting the lowest-lying area, including South Street Seaport and the financial district, will require adding more land over several years. De Blasio, who is contemplating joining the crowded field of 2020 Democratic presidential candidates, said the $10 billion landfill project should be supported by federal funds, but that's unlikely to happen during the administration of Republican President Donald Trump." Lower Manhattan is one of the core centers of the American economy," he said. "It's where the financial capital of the United States is. The security of lower Manhattan should be a national priority. The fact is it is not. And it's incomprehensible to me that there's no sense of urgency from the federal government." He added, "We can't afford to bury our head in the sand and that's right now what our federal government is doing." The plan to extend the coastline will go through the city's environmental review process, de Blasio said, but he hopes to avoid "the endless dragging on that usually accompanies something of this scale." CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPBut the prospect of private development on the newly built land is sure to meet resistance from downtown Manhattan community members. City Council member Margaret Chin, who represents the area, said a more resilient future "cannot be paid for by private real estate development that would destroy the waterfront neighborhoods that we are trying to protect." De Blasio announced the climate resilience plan at a news conference after previewing it in New York magazine ." This is the existential threat," de Blasio said. "This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible." The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
852	Bipartisan Report	questionable_source	2017-10-05	The truly maddening part though is that Merkley showed the American people that it's not just ignorance – it's intentional ignorance.	With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria, it cannot be ignored any longer.	A five-year-old could easily note that they do indeed follow each other.	Wehrum tried to sleazily worm his way out of answering the simple question.	It was a basic question asking if the lines followed each other.		Senator Jeff Merkley Shreds Trump's EPA Appointee Over Global Warming Beliefs After this hurricane season, the GOP has a dose of reality they are going to HAVE to take – climate change is real, and it can and will be destructive. With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria, it cannot be ignored any longer. However, with a Trump administration, it will be if allowed. Fortunately for the country and the world, there are some Democrats who will do their best to stop the Republican party from destroying the Earth with their own blatant ignorance. During a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing on Wednesday, Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) took EPA appointee William Wehrum to task over his inability to acknowledge that greenhouse gases do have a major impact on temperature. Merkley displayed a chart, composed by NASA, that showed the relationship between rising temperatures and rising greenhouse emissions. Obviously, the chart showed that as greenhouse gas emissions go up so does the temperature. It was a basic question asking if the lines followed each other. A five-year-old could easily note that they do indeed follow each other. Wehrum tried to sleazily worm his way out of answering the simple question. Merkley interrupted Wehrum and asked him to just look at the lines. Wehrum never did answer the question. Merkley thanked him and then let him have it. He then noted NASA found no correlation between solar activity or volcanic activity; however, they did find a correlation between carbon dioxide and other global warming gases and the rising temperature of the planet. Merkley continued:For the rest of the questioning, Merkley continued to show just how woefully ignorant the officials in charge of the Environmental Protection Agency are. The truly maddening part though is that Merkley showed the American people that it's not just ignorance – it's intentional ignorance. They refuse to see it, accept being ignorant, and continue their refusal to acknowledge that climate change is real, and it will have (and already has had) devastating effects on the planet. You can watch a video of the hearing below.	False
569	rt	questionable_source	2018-10-18	Think your friends would be interested?	Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA) said Democrats should "focus on the practical and the opportunistic" in the short term while working toward big-picture "aspirational goals" in the long term.	Meanwhile, he doesn't want to "sacrifice the economic well-being of our country for something that nobody really knows."	Trump may believe in climate change now, but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have "a very big political agenda."	While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was "created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive," he is now convinced that "something's changing and it'll change back again," according to an interview he gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday.		'It'll change back?' Trump mocked for his 'natural instinct for science' on climate change While a sobering new UN report on climate change indicates humans might have little time to change our ways to avoid environmental catastrophe, President Trump isn't worried, pointing to scientists "on both sides of the picture." Referencing an uncle who was a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (whom he never spoke to about climate change) as apparent proof of his scientific bona fides, Trump told the Associated Press that he has "a natural instinct for science" and that the climate goes "back and forth, back and forth." The US president remains unconvinced that human activity is the cause of climate change. While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was "created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive," he is now convinced that "something's changing and it'll change back again," according to an interview he gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday. Trump's appointee to the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, notoriously attempted to roll back several key environmental regulations passed under Barack Obama, including the Clean Power Plan, the Clean Water Rule, and a proposed ban on the pesticide chlorpyrifos. Pruitt also oversaw a 23 percent budget cut to the agency and filled science advisory panels with industry representatives instead of unaffiliated scientists. Trump may believe in climate change now, but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have "a very big political agenda." Meanwhile, he doesn't want to "sacrifice the economic well-being of our country for something that nobody really knows." While some Democrats favor bold moves to address climate change, others – perhaps still shell-shocked by the failure of their 2009 cap-and-trade bill under Obama – shy away from anything more than incremental measures, citing the "hostile" political environment in Congress. Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA) said Democrats should "focus on the practical and the opportunistic" in the short term while working toward big-picture "aspirational goals" in the long term. Some might argue the concept of a "long term," when it comes to the environment, was rendered irrelevant by the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report. It projected that humans have until 2030 to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we want to avoid catastrophic climate change in the form of massive sea level rise, increased drought, permafrost melt, and coral reef die-offs. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
611	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-06-03	They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson, Elon Musk and Bill Gates, in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton."	"To answer that question, Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live.	You can tell by the outraged looks on their faces and the purple rhetoric," Carlson said.	Carlson continued."	Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trump's decision to withdraw from the agreement.		Watch: It takes Tucker Carlson just 90 seconds to completely destroy liberal hypocrisy on climate change When it comes to unraveling liberal hypocrisy, Fox News host Tucker Carlson is arguably the best man for the job. And on his show Friday, it took Carlson just 90 seconds to completely dismantle liberal outrage over President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement on climate change. Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trump's decision to withdraw from the agreement. But many of those expressing outrage, including world famous Hollywood actors and businessmen, typically fly around the world in private jets that expel mind-boggling amounts of carbon dioxide — the exact substance climate alarmists say is the cause of climate change. Carlson explained on his show Friday that despite the fact that those upset about Trump's decision have not "bothered to explain what's actually in" the Paris agreement, "they assure us that that deal is the solution to the single most gravest threat this planet has ever faced: rising levels of atmospheric CO2." They're dead serious about that. You can tell by the outraged looks on their faces and the purple rhetoric," Carlson said. "But hold on for a minute. Can we really be sure that these people take carbon emissions seriously?"To answer that question, Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live. They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson, Elon Musk and Bill Gates, in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton." ranson says fossil fuels are 'dangerous' and he calls Trump's decision 'America first, Earth last.' Now on the other hand, Branson owes a Desault Falcon 50EX private jet and it burns more fuel on a single flight to Maui than you're gonna go through in a lifetime of trips to the shore," Carlson explained." lon Musk, meanwhile, is mad about global warming too. Yet he flies around in a Gulfstream G6500ER. Bill Gates says he's 'deeply concerned' yet he still commutes in a $62 million bombardier BD700 global express. Can you imagine the gas milage that gets?" Carlson continued." eonardo DiCaprio says Trump's move threatens the 'livability of our planet' and yet DiCaprio flew a private jet 4,000 miles from Cannes, France, to New York to accept a climate award — and then flew back privately," Carlson went on to explain." illary Clinton tweeted that Trump's pullout was a 'historic mistake that leaves American workers and families behind.' And yet, speaking of workers and their families, there probably weren't a lot of those onboard last year when Hillary used a private jet to fly 20 miles from Martha's Vineyard to Nantucket for a fundraiser," Carlson added. Trump announced his decision to withdraw the U.S. from the climate deal, which was agreed to under former President Barack Obama, on Thursday.	True
222	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-03-30	The conclusion?	Plastic Bags, or Paper?	Back in 2011, Britain's Environment Agency conducted a life-cycle assessment of various bag options, looking at every step of the production process.	That same British analysis also looked into reusable options, like heavier, more durable plastic bags or cotton bags.	And on that score, paper bags fare worse.		Plastic Bags, or Paper? Here's What to Consider When You Hit the Grocery Store So does that mean paper bags, which degrade more easily, are a better option? Not necessarily. Climate change has become the biggest environmental issue of our time, so it's worth looking at things from an emissions standpoint. And on that score, paper bags fare worse. Even though paper bags are made from trees, which are, in theory, a renewable resource, it takes significantly more energy to create pulp and manufacture a paper bag than it does to make a single-use plastic bag from oil. Back in 2011, Britain's Environment Agency conducted a life-cycle assessment of various bag options, looking at every step of the production process. The conclusion? You'd have to reuse a paper bag at least three times before its environmental impact equaled that of a high-density polyethylene plastic bag used only once. And if plastic bags were reused repeatedly, they looked even better. Paper bags can more easily be recycled or even composted, bu t the British study found that even these actions didn't make a huge difference in the broader analysis. Unless you're reusing your paper bags a lot, they look like a poorer option from a global warming standpoint. That same British analysis also looked into reusable options, like heavier, more durable plastic bags or cotton bags. And it found that these are only sustainable options if you use them very frequently. Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost-free. Growing cotton requires a fair bit of energy, land, fertilizer and pesticides, which can have all sorts of environmental effects — from greenhouse gas emissions to nitrogen pollution in waterways.	False
618	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-10-24	"I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about - that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about," Eskridge said.	Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler.	Often, they say, people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to.	That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change, like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	We're not looking to have our light bills cheaper, we're looking to stay here," said Deborah Pruitt, 57, who works at the island's museum, where printouts of news reports about the island are displayed on a wall.		Residents of shrinking island reject 'climate victim' label... TANGIER ISLAND, Va. (Reuters) - This summer, a delegation of Republican climate activists visited Tangier Island, a speck of grassland in Virginia's Chesapeake Bay, to try to convince its 450 residents to take climate change seriously. At a dinner attended by island residents Aug. 2, the activists from RepublicEn headed by former Republican Congressman Bob Inglis laid out the stakes: The sea level is rising, and some scientists estimate that within decades the island, already suffering severe erosion, will need to be abandoned. The people of Tangier Island were used to this kind of message. Former Vice President Al Gore, a prominent Democratic climate activist, had given the same speech to islanders three days earlier. They were also used to rejecting it." We'll talk to everybody," said James Eskridge, mayor of the mainly Republican island community. "But they're not going to change many minds here." Residents, he said, do not believe in climate change: they want a new sea wall to prevent erosion, not a lecture about saving the world with solar panels. Tangier Island's steadfast rejection of climate change reflects the rigidity of American opinions about global warming, often defined along political party lines. Reuters/Ipsos polling shows more than a third of Americans, mainly Republicans, reject the scientific consensus that climate change is driven by human activity. Less than a third of Americans believe global warming poses an imminent threat to the United States. These views barely budged after a series of devastating hurricanes this summer. That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change, like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels. And while conservatives have long been skeptical about climate change, doubters have a powerful new ally: U.S. President Donald Trump. He has called climate change a hoax and has started withdrawing the United States from a global pact to combat it, citing what he calls the huge economic cost. Eskridge told Reuters Trump called him in June after seeing a report about severe erosion problems on the island, telling him not to worry about sea level rise."I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about - that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about," Eskridge said.'WE'RE LOOKING TO STAY'An Army Corps of Engineers study in 2015 showed Tangier has lost two thirds of its mass since 1850 because of erosion, a process scientists say is being exacerbated by climate change. Journalists and politicians now view the island as a symbol of the climate crisis. Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler. A sea wall built on one side of the island in the late 1980s has prevented the land behind it from eroding, they say, so another sea wall is the answer." We're not looking to have our light bills cheaper, we're looking to stay here," said Deborah Pruitt, 57, who works at the island's museum, where printouts of news reports about the island are displayed on a wall. Conservative climate activists like Rob Sisson of ConservAmerica and Mitch Hescox of the Evangelical Environmental Network said the rejection of climate change by Tangier residents is not surprising: their groups often have trouble convincing fellow Republicans global warming is a real issue. Often, they say, people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to. Florida Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, one of a handful of Republicans to publicly declare a belief in climate change, said she has a strategy for getting fellow Republicans to think of solutions: "I've found that the best way ... is to not dwell on the causes," she said in an email.	False
443	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-10-27	quasi-fascist policy of fear-mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trump's response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos," said Ashley Dawson, author of Extreme Cities: The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change.	"The best way, from a security perspective, is to bolster the resilience of those countries so you reduce the likelihood of instability, reduce the likelihood of conflict and reduce the likelihood of displacement that might force outward migration."	Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms, we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress."	Under those conditions, more than 1 billion people globally could be forced to flee their homes by 2050, and 2 billion by 2100.	Trump's Military Response To Migrant Caravan Foreshadows A Dark Long-Term Climate Policy GUILLERMO ARIAS via Getty Images A child in the caravan of roughly 7,200 Central American migrants headed north to the U.S.-Mexico border.		Trump's Military Response To Migrant Caravan Foreshadows A Dark Long-Term Climate Policy GUILLERMO ARIAS via Getty Images A child in the caravan of roughly 7,200 Central American migrants headed north to the U.S.-Mexico border. Now ― with the White House poised to gut the federal government's only two major rules to reduce planet-warming emissions, and Trump threatening to cut aid to drought- and violence-afflicted Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador ― critics say the administration's strategy to deal with climate change is taking shape, frustrating national security experts who say hunkering down and militarizing borders will do little to mitigate global warming's threats."  quasi-fascist policy of fear-mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trump's response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos," said Ashley Dawson, author of Extreme Cities: The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change. Despite the repeated dismissals of climate science by the president and many of his top advisers, the Trump administration officially forecasts that the planet is expected to warm by 7 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of the century ― a projection buried in a 500-page environmental impact statement in August. That's roughly double the temperature scientists say will cause cataclysmic drought, storms and sea level rise, and roughly four times the warming the planet has already experienced since the pre-industrial era. Under those conditions, more than 1 billion people globally could be forced to flee their homes by 2050, and 2 billion by 2100. Tropical regions ― where many of the roughly 20,000 to 40,000 migrants who crossed the U.S. southern border each month in the past year came from ― are expected to be hit the hardest. It's difficult to draw a direct line between climate change and a migrant's decision to leave home, and neither the United Nations nor nearly any other major countries currently offer legal avenues for asylum seekers fleeing the effects of global warming. New Zealand became the first country late last year to create a special status for climate refugees with 100 annual visas as low-lying island nations in its corner of the Pacific face existential threat of sea-level rise. On the opposite side of the ocean, a hotter climate is expected to parch once fertile lands. In an email, Jennifer Francis, a Rutgers University climate researcher, said "it's likely that increasing drought in Central America is making it more difficult for farmers there to make a living." The President had willing partners in Congress and could have worked on immigration, border security, DREAMers and all that," Joseph Majkut, director of climate policy at the Niskanen Center, a libertarian think tank, said in an email. "But he didn't take advantage of that opportunity. Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms, we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress." Climate change [is] contributing to make nations unstable, both nations in our neighborhood and others abroad," said Femia, whose Washington-based policy institute includes former top national security advisers. "The best way, from a security perspective, is to bolster the resilience of those countries so you reduce the likelihood of instability, reduce the likelihood of conflict and reduce the likelihood of displacement that might force outward migration." That doesn't seem likely in the near term. The president attempted to cut funding for United States Agency for International Development by 33 percent this year, though bipartisan support for the federal government's dedicated aid agency staved off the proposal. By deporting hundreds of thousands of Central Americans from the United States, the administration, like the Obama administration before it, is bolstering gang recruitment in countries like El Salvador, according to a December report from the International Crisis Group. That worsens the violence that many cite as a main reason for fleeing northward.	False
28	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-06-20	Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that "we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience, especially among young people."	Lecuyer says that some activists experience a form of "trauma ... due to the high emotions from stress and excitement and the physical effort, because you have to walk for miles in groups to the target, pass police roadblocks, sometimes under water cannon or pepper spray, and then hold the blockade".	Meanwhile they plan to organise in so-called affinity groups of up to 10 people of similar physical fitness—and a willingness to be arrested for trespassing and other offences.	This is reflected in demand for training courses everywhere and by the very rapid rise in skills of new activists."	Here is a look at this growing form of environmental activism.		Europe's growing 'climate civil disobedience' movement... Thousands of European activists plan to blockade a large German lignite mine this week, the latest protest of a growing "climate civil disobedience" movement. While school students have held "Fridays for Future" rallies for months, protesters of the "Extinction Rebellion" group launched in Britain have risked arrest with more confrontational protests. From next Thursday to Monday, Europe's veteran "Ende Gelaende" (EG) anti-coal activists will hold their sixth large-scale blockade of an open-pit coal mine and power plants run by German energy giant RWE. The group's online "action consensus" says: "In view of the urgency of the climate crisis, we consider it necessary and appropriate to go one step further: from public protest to civil disobedience." Here is a look at this growing form of environmental activism. Tadzio Mueller, a German organiser of the movement, argues that "massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos". Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that "we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience, especially among young people." This is reflected in demand for training courses everywhere and by the very rapid rise in skills of new activists." Lecuyer stresses that "non-violence is part of our action consensus: it is forbidden to harm the security forces, site employees or to damage the equipment". During past protests at the nearby Hambacher Forest, police and RWE company staff have accused the most militant protesters of having hurled rocks or molotov cocktails. The Ende Gelaende movement has distanced itself from those environmental militants and any acts of violence. The EG activists—dressed in trademark white overalls symbolising the toxicity of fossil fuels—plan to march from their protest camp to the Garzweiler mine about 10 kilometres (six miles) away. They hope to evade police roadblocks and enter the vast open-pit mining area to occupy strategic locations and "technical infrastructure such as rails, access roads and excavators". Meanwhile they plan to organise in so-called affinity groups of up to 10 people of similar physical fitness—and a willingness to be arrested for trespassing and other offences. Before the protest, activists attend training workshops to learn non-violent resistance techniques such as locking their arms and legs in formation with names such as "the little train" or "the turtle". What risks do protesters take?Occupying an industrial site is illegal under German law, and volunteer legal advisers are on hand to support activists before and after they are arrested. They advise them to say as little as possible while in custody. Other risks lurk at the Garzweiler site. A vast moonscape-like terrain where the surface can be unstable after rain or drought, it is criss-crossed by high-power cables and dug up by building-sized excavators. When breaking up protesters' blockades, German police have in the past employed high-powered water jets and pepper spray. Lecuyer says that some activists experience a form of "trauma ... due to the high emotions from stress and excitement and the physical effort, because you have to walk for miles in groups to the target, pass police roadblocks, sometimes under water cannon or pepper spray, and then hold the blockade".	False
863	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-09-27	"The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California."	"We're looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward."	"I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result."	Brown, one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change, would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. "I've gotten messages from the governor asking, 'Why haven't we done something already?'"	Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally, due to the massive size of California's car market.		Jerry Brown Wants to Impose 'China-Style' Ban on Combustion Engine Cars Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal-combustion engines, Mary Nichols, chairman of the California Air Resources Board, said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away, she said. Brown, one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change, would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. "I've gotten messages from the governor asking, 'Why haven't we done something already?'" Nichols said, referring to China's planned phase-out of fossil-fuel vehicle sales. "The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California." "To reach the ambitious levels of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, we have to pretty much replace all combustion with some form of renewable energy by 2040 or 2050," Nichols said. "We're looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward." Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally, due to the massive size of California's car market. Over 2 million new passenger vehicles were sold and registered in the nation's most populous state last year — more than than the entire nations of Spain, France and Italy. California has had the right to write its own pollution rules since the 1970's under waivers granted by the EPA. But it's unlikely the Trump administration would approve such a plan, forcing California to take a different legal route. According to Motor Trend magazine, Nichols says California is considering regulating the types of cars that can be registered in the state or have access to highways. "We certainly wouldn't expect to get a waiver for that from the EPA," she told Bloomberg. "I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result." China plans to end sales of combustion engine vehicles in 2030. Other countries like France and the U.K. plan to follow suit a decade later. California has not yet specified a date to copy China's policy. Tim Donnelly is a former California State Assemblyman and Author, currently on a book tour for his new book: Patriot Not Politician: Win or Go Homeless.  He also ran for governor in 2014.	False
242	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-08-30	"Climate Justice."	"When do we want it?	The speaker listed the group's demands, which will be presented at the U.N. summit: "A just and livable world" where "fossil fuels are left out of every decision" around the world; 100 percent renewable energy around the globe; and "holding polluters accountable" for causing the "climate crisis."	"It is not a coincidence.	The youths held signs that read "Greed Kills," "Help My Home is on Fire," and "527 Years of Indigenous Resistance" and chanted in between speeches phrases such as:"What do we want?"		Greta Thunberg Mum as Climate Activist Proclaims 'We Cannot Live in a World that Is Melting' "We cannot live in a world that is burning," one young woman said, "that is melting." Climate change is already affecting millions of people," another young woman claimed. "This could lead to mass extinction." We are not here to guilt individuals that forgot to recycle a cup last week," another young woman said. "We are here to hold cowardice [sic] politicians accountable who have caused this damage by turning their heads in fear." Those 12 years left (to stop carbon emissions)," a young woman yelled. "Is now down to 10 years and five months." One young woman said she wanted to acknowledge Hurricane Dorian, a storm that is still in the Atlantic Ocean and is not expected to make landfall somewhere in Florida until early next week." t is ravaging the coast of Florida," the girl said. "It is not a coincidence. It is a direct impact of the climate crisis." The youths held signs that read "Greed Kills," "Help My Home is on Fire," and "527 Years of Indigenous Resistance" and chanted in between speeches phrases such as:"What do we want?" "Climate Justice." "When do we want it? Now." No more coal, no more oil, keep your carbon in the soil," and "Waters are rising, people are dying."A speaker said that the protest was not the goal of the movement by a "catalyst" for action, including a planned "global climate strike" on September 20, just three days ahead of a U.N. climate summit that is expected to draw leaders from around the world and where Thunberg will be a special guest and speaker. The speaker listed the group's demands, which will be presented at the U.N. summit: "A just and livable world" where "fossil fuels are left out of every decision" around the world; 100 percent renewable energy around the globe; and "holding polluters accountable" for causing the "climate crisis." The publicist for the New York City protest refused to speak with Breitbart News when an inquiry was made about Thunberg's appearance and about Alexandria Villaseñor, a 14-year-old who claims she has been protesting every Friday at the United Nations for 38 weeks. Reporters on the scene were kept from interviewing Thunberg during the protest. Thunberg gained international attention when she cut school a year ago to appear before the Swedish parliament where she called on young people around the world to cut school every Friday to protest climate change. It is not clear how many students in New York are still on summer break or skipped classes, but Thunberg's publicity team announced that the 16-year-old is taking a "sabbatical" from her high school studies to "concentrate on her activism." After attending the U.N. summit, Thunberg and her father will travel in the United States, Canada, and Mexico before attending a second U.N. climate change summit in Chile in December. Thunberg has said she is not sure how she will get back to Sweden, and no details have been released on how she will travel around the North and South American continents without the help of fossil-fuel-powered transportation.	True
722	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-09-18	Let's begin with "bringing back coal."	The Mars Candy Company recently committed a billion dollars to ensure that it's operations and supply chain would reduce their climate impact by 67 percent by 2050.	As the CEO of one of America's historically coal dependent utilities, Tom Fanning of the Southern Company, says, "You can't keep waves off the beach."	These don't usually get counted in reporting on bottom up climate action – but they have a huge positive impact on emissions.	And global firms will impact the U.S. climate footprint.		America Is Doubling Down On Climate Progress The American political conversation about climate is, indeed, scary and depressing. But the decarbonization of the real U.S. economy – as opposed to the cardboard, fossil fuel-handicapped White House version – continues. Indeed, decarbonization is accelerating, giving me confidence that in a year or so, it will be clear to everyone that the U.S. is on track to meet and perhaps exceed its (inadequate) 2025 Paris objective, cutting emissions 26-28 percent. That goal requires reducing emissions by 1,800 million tons of CO2. At the end of 2016, the U.S. was almost halfway – emissions down 850 million tons, or 13 percent. This progress was led by the utility sector, where efficiency, renewables and natural were replacing coal so fast that power sector carbon was down 25 percent. The world rightfully worries when they hear Donald Trump proclaim he is going to bring back coal and watch the administration and the Republican Congress try to roll back such common sense requirements  limits on the wasteful flaring and leaking of methane from oil and gas fields. But Trump's promise to have America withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has sparked a stunning wave of climate leadership from U.S. cities, states and businesses, a wave that is still building, but by the time it crests may more than make up for Trump's stubborn foot-dragging. Let's begin with "bringing back coal." Since Trump was elected, no new coal plants have been announced or opened; 10 plants with 5,600 megawatts instead have announced they will shut down. West Virginia's largest utility won't expand coal generation because it can't find customers for coal power; CSX, a leading coal hauling railroad, thinks coal is going away so fast that it has stopped replacing coal rail cars. Now, the Sierra Club has estimated that additional coal plants whose retirement have already been announced would cut emissions about 160 million tons. Closing vulnerable plants, facilities that no longer make economic sense to keep operating, could avoid another 275 million tons. If present trends continue, the club also documented that the U.S. could triple renewable electricity; overall, the utility sector should be emitting 500 million tons of carbon less in 2025 than it was just last year. While coal fades, state governments representing almost 60 percent of the American economy are racing forward. In January, California released its plan to cut its emissions by 40 percent by 2030 and went on to extend its cap and trade program for another decade, until 2030 – this time with support for the first time from the oil industry! California is also on the verge of requiring 100 percent of its power to come from renewables. Overall, a dozen states are debating increasing their reliance on renewable power. Maryland just established a 25 percent renewable power goal, overriding the veto of a Republican governor. (The Nevada legislature went for 40 percent but has not yet been able to overturn a similar veto.)The 15 "early adaptor" states in the Climate Alliance will report this week that they are already on track to reduce their 2025 emissions by 24-29 percent. And some of America's most Republican, climate-skeptical states – Oklahoma, Kansas, North Dakota and even Texas, are steadily replacing coal with renewables – for economic reasons. These don't usually get counted in reporting on bottom up climate action – but they have a huge positive impact on emissions. Whether their state legislatures and governors are leading on climate or not, America's cities, where most of our climate pollution originates, are embracing a decarbonized future. In June, when Trump promised to pull out of the Paris agreement, 125 cities told the world "we are still in" the Paris agreement. Today, only three months later, the number has ballooned to 238. The U.S. Conference of Mayors, representing more than 1,000 of America's largest cities, voted unanimously to endorse the goal of 100 percent renewable power – and since Trump's election, the number of U.S. cities with 100 percent policies has mushroomed – more than 40 cities are now committed individually, and five have hit that target!But government is not alone. The private sector, where companies are increasingly competing with each other to succeed in the carbon-free economy of the future, is  making Trump's climate-denial braggadocio increasingly irrelevant. The Mars Candy Company recently committed a billion dollars to ensure that it's operations and supply chain would reduce their climate impact by 67 percent by 2050. The number of companies who have signed the pledge of support for the Paris agreement has almost doubled, from 906 in June to 1,729 this week.  And global firms will impact the U.S. climate footprint. VW announced a few days ago that it will offer electric versions of all its models – entering the competition against current global EV leader, U.S.-based Tesla, which delivered its first Model 3 in July. It is true, the Trump administration is struggling to hold back the future, with appalling decisions like EPA's recent announcement that it would delay cleaning up toxic water pollution from coal power plants for two years. But the courts are steadily shredding much of this; the conservative 10th circuit just ruled that Trump must consider climate impacts before issuing new coal leases on federal lands. As the CEO of one of America's historically coal dependent utilities, Tom Fanning of the Southern Company, says, "You can't keep waves off the beach." King Canute knew this. And the decarbonization of the American economy – the real economy, not the fake news economy – shows it's still true. The world can see and measure – America is still in.	False
501	yahoonews	left_center_bias	2018-03-13	Naomi Ages, the climate director of Greenpeace USA, was similarly perturbed."	Tiernan Sittenfeld, senior vice president of government affairs for the League of Conservation Voters, said in a statement that Pompeo's nomination is profoundly disturbing but not unexpected."	hough not surprising, this is extremely troubling.	He also suggested that a carbon tax may be the best way to limit the greenhouse-gas emissions driving global warming.	Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world, and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community," she said.		For climate hawks, firing Tillerson is a case of &apos;be careful what you wish for&apos; Secretary of State Rex Tillerson arrives at a meeting of the National Space Council in Chantilly, Va., on Oct. 5, 2017. (Photo: Andrew Harnik/AP)President Trump's dismissal of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson Tuesday morning fulfilled a long-held wish for climate advocates, but they fear his replacement, CIA Director Mike Pompeo, will be even worse. Tillerson joined Exxon in 1975 and rose through the ranks over the decades. He was CEO and chairman of ExxonMobil from 2006 until he joined the Trump administration in 2017. That Trump would nominate a lifelong oilman to succeed John Kerry, who led the U.S. through the Paris climate negotiations of late 2015, as the nation's top diplomat resulted in predictable and fierce pushback. During his confirmation hearing in January 2017, however, Tillerson told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he thought the United States should stay in the Paris Agreement, which strives to reduce global warming to 2°C (3.6°F). He also suggested that a carbon tax may be the best way to limit the greenhouse-gas emissions driving global warming. Pompeo, on the other hand, identified with the tea party and represented Kansas's Fourth Congressional District from 2011 to 2017. He received more financial backing from Koch Industries, an energy and natural resources conglomerate, than any other candidate in the 2010 elections: $80,000. In fact, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a bipartisan research group that tracks the effect of lobbying on elections and policy, Pompeo has received more money from Koch interests than any other House member. In just four election cycles (2010, 2012, 2014, 2016), he received the following: $335,000 from Koch Industries employees, which includes $92,000 from the Koch family; $69,000 from the Koch Industries PAC; $417,175 from Americans for Prosperity, an advocacy group funded by the Kochs; and $87,532 from other organizations with substantial funding by the Koch brothers. And Pompeo turned to the Koch brothers, who actively oppose climate change legislation, for money long before running for office. In the late '90s, Koch Industries invested in an aerospace company Pompeo founded with fellow West Point alumni. He sold his interest in Thayer Aerospace in 2006 and became president of Sentry International, which produces and sells oil field equipment. In short, even though environmentalists adamantly opposed Tillerson, they do not expect anything positive for the climate from Pompeo. Jake Schmidt, the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, released the following statement: "Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first-class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse. This shuffling of the deck chairs will ensure that Washington continues to bring up the rear when it comes to international action to combat dangerous climate change." Tiernan Sittenfeld, senior vice president of government affairs for the League of Conservation Voters, said in a statement that Pompeo's nomination is profoundly disturbing but not unexpected." hough not surprising, this is extremely troubling. Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world, and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community," she said. "With a history of questioning the science of climate change, a close relationship with the polluter Koch brothers and lifetime LCV score of 4%, Mike Pompeo has no business becoming the next secretary of state." Naomi Ages, the climate director of Greenpeace USA, was similarly perturbed." onald Trump has now somehow picked someone even worse than Rex Tillerson to run the State Department. Greenpeace has been opposed to Tillerson as secretary of state from the moment he was nominated, and we continue to believe that the U.S. government cannot and should not be run by fossil-fuel industry flunkies," Ages said in a statement. "Mike Pompeo, though, is uniquely unqualified to be secretary of state in an entirely different way than Rex Tillerson was. In addition to being a climate denier, like his predecessor, Pompeo is Koch brothers' shill who will denigrate the United States' reputation abroad and make us vulnerable to threats at home." Rep. Barbara Lee, D-Calif., also took issue with Pompeo's past statements on climate change.	False
595	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-09-26	"The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California."	here are people who believe, including who work for me, that you could stop all sales of new internal-combustion cars by 2030.	"We're looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward."	Some people say 2035, some people say 2040," she said.	"I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result."		California Considers Following China With Combustion-Engine Car Ban... The internal combustion engine's days may be numbered in California, where officials are mulling whether a ban on sales of polluting autos is needed to achieve long-term targets for cleaner air. Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal-combustion engines, Mary Nichols, chairman of the California Air Resources Board, said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away, she said. Brown, one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change, would be replicating similar moves by China, France and the U.K." 've gotten messages from the governor asking, 'Why haven't we done something already?'" Nichols said, referring to China's planned phase-out of fossil-fuel vehicle sales. "The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California." Embracing such a policy would send shockwaves through the global car industry due to the heft of California's auto market. More than 2 million new passenger vehicles were registered in the state last year, topping France, Italy or Spain. If a ban were implemented, automakers from General Motors Co. to Toyota Motor Corp. would be under new pressure to make electric vehicles the standard for personal transportation in the most populous U.S. state, casting fresh doubts on the future of gasoline- and diesel-powered autos elsewhere. The Association of Global Automakers said consumers must be able to afford the cleaner cars that California says are needed to meet its climate goals. The trade association represents Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and other overseas carmakers in the U.S." We have been working with California on intelligent, market-based approaches to emissions reductions beyond 2025, and we hope that this doesn't signal an abandonment of that position," Global Automakers Chief Executive Officer John Bozzella said in a statement. California has set a goal to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2050. Rising emissions from on-road transportation has undercut the state's efforts to reduce pollution, according to Next 10, San Francisco-based non-profit." o reach the ambitious levels of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, we have to pretty much replace all combustion with some form of renewable energy by 2040 or 2050," Nichols said. "We're looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward." California has the authority to write its own pollution rules, which dates back to the 1970 Clean Air Act. Those rules are underpinned by waivers granted by the Environmental Protection Agency. Nichols said the state would likely take a different legal route to enable a possible ban rather than use an EPA waiver, since the Trump administration would be unlikely to approve one. For example, California could use vehicle registration rules or control the vehicles that can access state highways, she said." e certainly wouldn't expect to get a waiver for that from EPA," Nichols said. "I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result." Read more: California Sets Demands for Auto-Emission Talks With TrumpChina will likely order an end to sales of all polluting vehicles by 2030, the chairman of electric-carmaker BYD Co. said Thursday. France and the U.K. have announced 2040 as their end date for sales of fossil fuel-powered cars.A ban for California could also still be decades away from implementation, and just how far out remains to be seen, Nichols said." here are people who believe, including who work for me, that you could stop all sales of new internal-combustion cars by 2030. Some people say 2035, some people say 2040," she said. "It's awfully hard to predict any of that with precision, but it doesn't appear to be out of the question."	False
215	thehill	left_center_bias	2019-01-20	Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community.	The study, mandated to be released every four years under the National Climate Assessment from the multiagency Global Change Research Program, was conducted by hundreds of government and external scientists.	Trump dismissed the report, saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man-made.	Wouldn't be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now!	Falling temperatures were expected to create icy surfaces, further increasing the risk of travel.		Trump cites massive winter storm to mock global warming President Trump Donald John TrumpSunday shows preview: Shutdown negotiations continue after White House immigration proposal Rove warns Senate GOP: Don't put only focus on base Ann Coulter blasts Trump shutdown compromise: 'We voted for Trump and got Jeb!' MORE in an early morning tweet on Sunday suggested global warming could be helpful as a massive snowstorm dropped several inches of snow and sent temperatures plunging across the Midwest and swaths of the Northeast United States." Be careful and try staying in your house," Trump advised. "Large parts of the Country are suffering from tremendous amounts of snow and near record setting cold. Amazing how big this system is. Wouldn't be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now!"The president, who has repeatedly cast doubt on the existence and effects of climate change, has regularly cited significant winter storms to mock the concept of global warming. He sent similar tweets in 2017 and 2011. The current winter storm prompted the governor of Kansas to declare a state of emergency, canceled thousands of flights and dumped more than a foot of snow across most of upstate New York. Falling temperatures were expected to create icy surfaces, further increasing the risk of travel. Trump and others who deny climate change have cited cold temperatures and winter storms to dismiss global warming, but experts have noted there is a difference between the climate and weather.A government report issued late last year concluded that climate change could cost the United States billions of dollars annually within decades if greenhouse gases aren't dramatically reduced and could worsen environmental disasters like wildfires and flooding. Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community. The study, mandated to be released every four years under the National Climate Assessment from the multiagency Global Change Research Program, was conducted by hundreds of government and external scientists. Trump dismissed the report, saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man-made.	False
207	pbs	left_center_bias	2019-05-27	She attributed the result to young people's fears about globalwarming."	he French sent us a very clear message: they want environment to be at theheart of our lives, at the heart of the political game and that message hasbeen spread across Europe," he said."	he climate issue is super important at the moment," Tran said.	think people realize that there are issues you can't solve at the nationallevel," he said.	"Peopledidn't take to the streets to elect or kick out a party, but for theseproblems to be solved."		Europe wakes up to climate concerns after 'green wave' in vote BERLIN — Green parties in Germany, France, Britain and elsewhere celebratedbig gains in elections for the 751-seat European Parliament amid growing voterconcerns over climate change, expressed in large-scale student protests overrecent months. Provisional results Monday showed the left-leaning Greens' bloc coming fourthin the election with 69 seats, an increase of 17 compared with 2014. Ifconfirmed, the results could put the Greens in a position to tip the scaleswhen it comes to choosing the next head of the European Commission. The rise of the Greens, with their distinctly pro-European Union stance, marksa counterpoint to that of the far-right, anti-migrant parties that have beengrowing in popularity across Europe in recent years." hoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went ontothe streets will need to deliver now," said Sven Giegold, a leading candidatefor the German Green party that scooped up more than 20% of the votenationwide, an increase of almost 10% compared with 2014.)The drift from the traditional heavyweight parties to the Greens in Germanywas particularly pronounced in large cities such as Berlin, Munich andHamburg, and among young voters, where the party beat its bigger rivals amongall voters under 60, according to the Infratest dimap research institute. Armin Laschet, the governor of Germany's most populous state, North Rhine-Westphalia, and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkel's center-right Unionbloc, called the outcome "a wake-up call for politics." In neighboring France, 25% of voters aged 18-25 voted for the Greens, comparedwith 15% for the far-right National Rally and 12% for President EmmanuelMacron's Republic on the Move, according to the Ifop polling organization. Overall, the French green party EELV received almost 13.5% of the vote, comingthird. Yannick Jadot, lead candidate of EELV, welcomed the "great green wave" inEurope." he French sent us a very clear message: they want environment to be at theheart of our lives, at the heart of the political game and that message hasbeen spread across Europe," he said." he very good score of the greens in Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium and Francesends a signal that the center of gravity of the European politics isshifting, that in addition to the populists and the pro-business (parties),there are the Greens," Jadot said. Green parties also polled strongly in Austria, Sweden, Ireland, Denmark andthe Netherlands. In Britain, the Greens — a largely insignificant forcenationally — took 11 seats in the European Parliament vote." his was kind of a vote for all europhile and pro-integration positions theGreens have championed," Martin Florack, a political scientist at theUniversity of Duisburg-Essen, told German public broadcaster ARD. The enmity was reflected in comments by Alexander Gauland, the co-leader ofthe far-right Alternative for Germany party, who declared the Greens "our mainenemy" on Monday." he Greens will destroy this country and our job must and will be to fightthe Greens," said Gauland, whose party has claimed climate change isn't a man-made phenomenon but instead caused by factors such as solar activity, a theorymost scientists dismiss.A senior member of the anti-immigration and euroskeptic Danish People's Party,Kenneth Kristensen Berth, said the issues of the climate and the environmentwere "a bit hysterical" during the election, but insisted that Denmark'ssecond-largest political group "is not a climate-denial party." Among those celebrating the Greens' rise was Biggi Tran, a 26-year-old inBerlin. She attributed the result to young people's fears about globalwarming." he climate issue is super important at the moment," Tran said. Manuel Rivera, a Green party member in the Germany capital, said the EuropeanParliament was the right place to tackle climate change."  think people realize that there are issues you can't solve at the nationallevel," he said. Giegold, the German Greens' lead candidate, said voters expect the party todeliver on its environmental pledges, not secure powerful posts in theexecutive European Commission." cross Europe this was a vote to protect the climate," he said. "Peopledidn't take to the streets to elect or kick out a party, but for theseproblems to be solved." Green lawmakers in the European Parliament plan to scrutinize the bloc's 200billion euro ($223.7 billion) agriculture budget, which environmentalists sayplaces too much emphasis on large-scale farming and not enough on eco-friendlyagriculture, he said. The Greens also want every law passed at the EU-level to undergo a climatecheck. The party has strongly backed scientists' calls for the bloc to end allgreenhouse gas emissions by mid-century. Achieving this goal would require a drastic shift in Europe's economy, awayfrom fossil fuels to clean energy and low-carbon lifestyles. Some measuresproposed for cutting emissions have already faced strong headwind, includingMacron's plan for a fuel tax hike in France that triggered protests fromworkers even as environmentalists accused the president of not doing enoughfor the climate._Sylvie Corbet in Paris, and Kirsten Grieshaber in Berlin, contributed to thisreport._	False
558	rt	questionable_source	2018-10-12	Others were less accusatory."	It's the damage we are doing to the planet," one Twitter user noted in response to the Now This video."	Social media users appeared to largely line up behind the allegations hurled at Scott – although some seemed unconvinced that the governor was at fault."	the commentary, penned by John Abraham, a professor of thermal sciences, asks rhetorically.	And we are reaping what we sow," the subhead states matter-of-factly.		Media storm targets Gov. Rick Scott's climate change denial after Hurricane Michael pummels Florida As Hurricane Michael pummeled the Gulf coast, a less deadly but equally ferocious media storm formed around Florida Governor Rick Scott, whose alleged climate change denial has been blamed for putting Floridians in harm's way. Viral videos, New York Times op-eds, and Guardian contributors all highlighted Rick Scott's "backward stance" on climate change after Michael, a powerful typhoon, made landfall along the Florida Panhandle. According to these media reports and commentaries, Scott's "science denial" has endangered Florida residents. In other words, if Scott were more vocal about man-made climate change, Florida would have been better prepared for – or perhaps could have even prevented – the devastating hurricane." Florida is the state most endangered by climate change," declares a video published by Now This. "But Gov. Scott's strategy for dealing with it is denial." The New York Times' Nicholas Kristof also took Scott to task for his stance on climate change, writing that "alas, denying climate change doesn't actually prevent it." He added: "Some folks will say this isn't the moment for politics. But don't we have a responsibility to mitigate the next disaster?"It's true that Scott, who is currently running for the Senate, has shown little interest in highlighting or combating the alleged dangers of climate change. In 2015, after the governor took office, the Florida Department of Environment was reportedly banned from using the terms "climate change" and "global warming." Two years later, Scott signed a bill that critics dubbed the "anti-science law," which allows residents to file complaints about instructional materials used in public schools. Scott has a section on his website dedicated to environmental issues – but it is curiously absent of any direct mentions of climate change. However, his website does note that Scott "fought to protect Florida's coastline by getting Florida removed from consideration for offshore oil drilling and securing millions of dollars in state funding to help local governments with coastal resilience projects and sea level rise planning." On the campaign trail, Scott has dodged questions about climate change, resorting to responses such as "I'm not a scientist" to avoid weighing in on the subject. The motive behind Scott's alleged "science denial" has also received media attention. Last year, the Tampa Bay Times alleged that Scott's personal business ties to the energy industry may be the reason for the state's legislative inaction on climate change. The paper claimed that Scott had hefty investments in petroleum companies that oppose restrictions on greenhouse gases and other environmental regulations. READ MORE: Hurricane Michael shuts in 40% off Gulf of Mexico oil productionThe Florida governor hasn't been the only one singled out by the media for his "backward" views, however. According to The Guardian, anyone who isn't a fervent believer in man-made climate change is to blame for Hurricane Michael – even the hurricane's victims." Victims of Hurricane Michael voted for climate deniers,"reads the headline an op-ed published in The Guardian on Thursday. "Elections have consequences. Denying science has consequences. And we are reaping what we sow," the subhead states matter-of-factly. The headline was later amended to "Victims of Hurricane Michael are represented by climate deniers." Climate deniers are making these storms worse by stopping action on climate change. What the hell do we expect to happen when the deniers are writing the laws?" the commentary, penned by John Abraham, a professor of thermal sciences, asks rhetorically. Social media users appeared to largely line up behind the allegations hurled at Scott – although some seemed unconvinced that the governor was at fault." Rick Scott can ban the term all he wants in FLORIDA. Climate change is real," one Twitter user wrote." He's bought and paid for," claimed another. Others were less accusatory." It's not our words that are negatively affecting the atmosphere. It's the damage we are doing to the planet," one Twitter user noted in response to the Now This video." Lol. Like the weather would give a crap if he went mute," a netizen observed. At least six people have been killed as a result of Hurricane Michael, the third most powerful storm ever to hit the US mainland, according to officials. The hurricane made landfall as a Category-4 storm, but later weakened to a Category 1 on Wednesday night. As Hurricane Michael gradually loses strength, however, it appears that the media storm over the consequences of climate change denial is only growing. Will the devastation wrought by Michael and all future hurricanes be laid at the feet of "science deniers"?Like this story? Share it with a friend!	True
547	buzzfeed	left_center_bias	2018-06-29	"There are plenty of 6–3 or 7–2 cases where environmentally sound decisions, in our view, were made.	Reliably hard to predict, Kennedy was more interested in nuanced and scientific arguments than some of the more conservative judges with a stricter anti-regulation outlook, David Doniger of the Natural Resources Defense Council told BuzzFeed News.	While he doesn't dismiss this possibility out of hand, he's more concerned by the court incrementally chipping away at the government's authority to regulate climate pollution in other ways.	t's not like every environmental case was decided 5–4," Doniger said.	One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered."		Retiring Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy Was A "Gettable Vote" On Environmental Cases, Lawyers Say Mark Miller of Pacific Legal Foundation, an anti-regulation law group that has won 10 out of 12 Supreme Court cases it has pursued, told BuzzFeed News it is too soon to tell exactly how a replacement for Kennedy would change environmental law. "You couldn't predict how Justice Kennedy was going to decide things over his thirty-some years." Reliably hard to predict, Kennedy was more interested in nuanced and scientific arguments than some of the more conservative judges with a stricter anti-regulation outlook, David Doniger of the Natural Resources Defense Council told BuzzFeed News. "Clearly, over the years he has been in a different spot from the other judges." Trump has said he will choose Kennedy's replacement from a short list of 25 candidates . If that holds true, the new court will likely be harder to convince of the importance of environmental laws. "He was a gettable fifth vote on decisions," Bookbinder said. "Things are more daunting without him." He will be missed," David Bookbinder of the Niskanen Center, who was the Sierra Club's chief climate counsel in the 2007 Massachusetts v. EPA decision that designated greenhouse gasses as pollution under the Clean Air Act. But during his 30-year tenure, Kennedy was also the key vote on fundamental environmental decisions. Environmental lawyers are worried about tough times ahead for new laws restricting pollution and protecting wildlife. Kennedy announced his retirement Wednesday, prompting an immediate political scramble over his successor and opening the door for new legal fights on hot-button social issues, such as abortion and gay marriage. Miller suggested that the Endangered Species Act would be the first environmental issue to take the stage on a Kennedy-less court: A dispute over the endangered dusky gopher frog, Weyerhaeuser v. US Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), is now on the court's docket in the fall. That fight is over 1,500 acres of forest in Louisiana that the FWS designated as "critical habitat" for the survival of the species, even though the frogs don't live on it. The owners of the forest are challenging the government agency's ability to declare property as "critical habitat" when a species doesn't live on it, as well as the government not taking economic costs into account in making such designations. Further down the road, experts expect a fight over which of the nation's waterways are actually protected under the Clean Water Act to return to the Supreme Court, which sent lawsuits on this issue to district courts in January. Those lawsuits are challenging the Environmental Protection Agency's protection of some streams and waterways under rules narrowly written to conform to a 4–1–4 Rapanos v. United States decision made in 2006, where the "1" was Kennedy. The conservative wing of the court wanted to limit EPA's oversight to only big, navigable waterways in that case, and the liberal justices wanted essentially all small wetlands and streams protected too — but Kennedy ended up creating middle ground. He said the government should only be able to regulate smaller waterways that have a "significant nexus" with major ones. So, there was no majority opinion. Because all spaces protected under Kennedy's one-vote opinion also would be protected under the four liberal justices' view, however, his opinion is the one that effectively controlled decisions going forward." n this case, his lone opinion became the law," Bookbinder said. "That's how pivotal he was." More lawsuits are expected on this in response to Trump's EPA drafting its own controversial water rule. One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered." here's a been a lot of focus on whether that case will be reversed by a new majority," Joseph Goffman, executive director of Harvard's Environmental Law Program, told BuzzFeed News. While he doesn't dismiss this possibility out of hand, he's more concerned by the court incrementally chipping away at the government's authority to regulate climate pollution in other ways. NRDC's Doniger pointed out the landmark decision has been twice reaffirmed by the court. At the same time, it had already started to chip away at EPA's power to regulate greenhouse gasses in 2016 by halting enforcement of the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan aimed at curbing emissions from power plants. The Trump administration has since said it was pulling back that plan. Chief Justice John Roberts over the years has not been consistently opposed to environmental regulation or plain readings of pollution laws, Doniger added, suggesting that environmental plaintiffs in cases may turn their strategy to garnering his vote. And while there were many close cases involving the environment that came to the court during Kennedy's 30 years there, environmental advocates noted that not all of those cases were close." t's not like every environmental case was decided 5–4," Doniger said. "There are plenty of 6–3 or 7–2 cases where environmentally sound decisions, in our view, were made. So you really can't say the sky is falling."	False
757	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-06-02	But he added: "Measuring with precision, from my perspective, the degree of human contribution is very challenging."	"That's where our focus has been the last several weeks."	For his own part, Pruitt acknowledged that global warming is occurring, and that "human activity contributes to it in some manner".	We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that."	ell, that's up to them, right?"		US has nothing to apologize for on climate change, says defiant EPA chief The head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said America has nothing to apologise for on climate change and retains a seat at the negotiating table, claiming: "After all, we're the United States." Scott Pruitt joined other officials in declining to say whether Donald Trump believes human activity contributes to climate change, a day after the president pulled America out of the landmark Paris agreement. Pruitt claimed Trump wants better terms within the Paris framework or an entirely new deal, and dismissed warnings from world leaders that it is not negotiable." ell, that's up to them, right?" the EPA administrator told reporters. "The United States has a seat at the table. After all, we're the United States and we are leading with respect to CO2 reduction. We have made tremendous progress." f nations around the globe want to seek to learn from us on what we're doing to reduce our CO2 footprint, we're going to share that with them, and that's something that should occur and will occur in the future. We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that." Trump announced on Thursday that the US, the world's second biggest greenhouse gas emitter, would immediately stop implementing the 195-nation agreement brokered by Barack Obama in 2015. There was a global backlash, and the EU said on Friday it will increase cooperation with China to combat climate change. Pruitt denied that America has abandoned the victims of climate change around the world, arguing that it has done "a tremendous amount" to reduce carbon output to 1990s levels and will stay engaged and continue to export relevant technology." his is not a message to anyone in the world that America should be apologetic of its CO2 position. We're actually making tremendous advances. We're just not going to agree to frameworks and agreements that put us at an economic disadvantage and hurt citizens across this country." He echoed Trump's attack on members of the agreement as having economic rather than environmental motives. "The world applauded when we joined Paris, and you know why? I think they applauded because they knew it was going to put this country at an economic disadvantage, and the reason European leaders want us to stay in is because they know it will continue to shackle our economy, though we are leading the world with respect to our CO2 reduction." The EPA administrator was asked repeatedly whether Trump believes climate change is a hoax, as Trump previously claimed, but refused to give a straight answer. "There's enough to deal with with respect to the Paris agreement and making an informed decision about this important issue," he said. "That's where our focus has been the last several weeks." For his own part, Pruitt acknowledged that global warming is occurring, and that "human activity contributes to it in some manner". But he added: "Measuring with precision, from my perspective, the degree of human contribution is very challenging." Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, was similarly evasive on the topic. Asked if he can talk to Trump about the cause of climate change and report back at the next press briefing, he replied: "If I can, I will." Spicer gave short shrift to suggestions that Trump's decision will lift China as a global leader. "I think part of the reason the president said it was a bad deal yesterday was because countries including China were not making substantial progress in reducing their carbon footprint." hey weren't doing enough and America was carrying the load, so I think by negotiating a better deal, hopefully we can get a better result for our country and the world." Nicaragua and Syria are the only countries not party to the Paris accord; the former says it is not ambitious enough. Under a long exit process, America's withdrawal will not be become formal until November 2020.	False
291	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-11-12	t's the only thing that people ever ask about," Bruce Nilles, who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute, a Colorado-based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency, said in the USA Today report.	"This is a must-do for the climate and a livable planet."	Environmentalists in California Take Aim at Kitchens to Save the Planet Environmentalists in California are willing to let the state dictate how they cook in their own kitchens in an attempt to save the planet.	USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation.	Carbon dioxide is the primary greenhouse gas causing climate change."		Environmentalists in California Take Aim at Kitchens to Save the Planet Environmentalists in California are willing to let the state dictate how they cook in their own kitchens in an attempt to save the planet. Thirteen cities and one county in California have put in place zoning codes encouraging or requiring all-electric new construction, virtually banning builders from running natural gas lines into homes and apartments to fuel appliances, including stoves and ovens. USA Today reported that people believe the move is necessary to fight climate change "with an eye toward creating fewer legacy gas hookups as the nation shifts to carbon-neutral energy sources." For natural gas companies, it's a threat to their existence. And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame, it's an unthinkable loss. Natural gas is a fossil fuel, mostly methane, and produces 33% of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions from electricity generation, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Carbon dioxide is the primary greenhouse gas causing climate change." here's no pathway to stabilizing the climate without phasing gas out of our homes and buildings," Rachel Golden of the Sierra Club's building electrification campaign, said. "This is a must-do for the climate and a livable planet." But the page linked to on the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) website is referring, ironically, to CO2 emissions from the U.S. electric power sector by source for 2018. The new codes call for replacing gas with electricity. The federal website reports on the benefits of using natural gas as an energy source:Burning natural gas for energy results in fewer emissions of nearly all types of air pollutants and carbon dioxide (CO2) than burning coal or petroleum products to produce an equal amount of energy. About 117 pounds of carbon dioxide are produced per million British thermal units (MMBtu) equivalent of natural gas compared with more than 200 pounds of CO2 per MMBtu of coal and more than 160 pounds per MMBtu of distillate fuel oil. The clean burning properties of natural gas have contributed to increased natural gas use for electricity generation and as a transportation fuel for fleet vehicles in the United States." robably the biggest stumbling block for most pondering an all-electric home is the prospect of not having a gas stove," USA Today reported." t's the only thing that people ever ask about," Bruce Nilles, who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute, a Colorado-based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency, said in the USA Today report. According to a 2017 kitchen study by the NPD Group, 35 percent of U.S. households have a gas stove, while 55 percent have electric." ut the number of natural gas customers is also rising," USA Today reported. "The American Gas Association, which represents more than 200 local energy companies, says an average of one new customer is added every minute." That's exactly the wrong direction," Nilles said." he idea that denying access to natural gas in new homes is necessary to meet emissions reduction goals is false," American Gas Association President and CEO Karen Harbert. "In fact, denying access to natural gas could make meeting emissions goals harder and more expensive." They also say it's more expensive to run an all-electric home," USA Today reported. "A study by AGA released last year suggested that all-electric homes would pay $750 to $910 a year more for energy-related costs, as well as amortized appliance and upgrade costs." USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation. New York, Hawaii, Colorado, and Maine have carbon-neutrality goals, and as many as 140 U.S. cities have similar plans.	False
586	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-09-23	"One is a critical rate of change, corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the ocean/atmosphere system.	The other, a critical size or mass, corresponds to the total carbon added to the oceans."	he study identifies two thresholds for major carbon cycle change," Rothman said.	According to Digital Trends, a mass extinction event is an event "in which a large number of species become extinct at once — as was the case with the death of the dinosaurs 65 million years ago.	Rothman goes on to explain that the tipping point of "unknown territory" won't take that long – he predicts it will come as soon as 2100, or sooner.		MIT professor warns humanity will hit 'mass extinction' event — here's why A geophysics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that he's run the numbers on humanity facing a "mass extinction event," and the numbers are not good. According to Digital Trends, a mass extinction event is an event "in which a large number of species become extinct at once — as was the case with the death of the dinosaurs 65 million years ago. Daniel Rothman told the publication that we are approaching a "threshold of catastrophe" in the carbon cycle similar to that of the five previous periods of mass extinction over the last 540 million years." he study identifies two thresholds for major carbon cycle change," Rothman said. "One is a critical rate of change, corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the ocean/atmosphere system. The other, a critical size or mass, corresponds to the total carbon added to the oceans." Exceeding the critical rate at slow time scales — much greater than about 10,000 years — or exceeding the critical size at fast time scales — much less than about 10,000 years — is associated with mass extinction," he explained." The MIT research paper] predicts that the critical mass, about 300 gigatons of carbon," he concluded, "will likely be exceeded sometime this century. If so, following the paper's logic, the marine carbon cycle would proceed to follow a trajectory which could excite a mass extinction over a period of about 10,000 years." Rothman goes on to explain that the tipping point of "unknown territory" won't take that long – he predicts it will come as soon as 2100, or sooner. Rothman says that "decreasing carbon emissions," would be the best way to try to avoid the catastrophe. Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock. They also cite previous "doomsday" scenarios offered by alarmist scientists that didn't come to fruition, including acid rain and global cooling.	False
800	BBC	left_center_bias	2017-06-01	The speech contained several rhetorical flourishes reminiscent of his campaign speeches."	Climate change is real.	Climate change, or global warming, refers to the damaging effect of gases, or emissions, released from industry and agriculture on the atmosphere.	The overall tone and content of his speech clearly plays to his base but is also a clear disavowal of multilateralism, especially on climate change, and will definitely push other countries more closely together on this issue.	"I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris.		Paris climate deal: Trump pulls US out of 2015 accord President Donald Trump has announced that the US is withdrawing from the 2015 Paris climate agreement. He said moves to negotiate a new "fair" deal that would not disadvantage US businesses and workers would begin. Mr Trump said during last year's presidential election campaign that he would take the step to help his country's oil and coal industries. Opponents say withdrawing from the accord is an abdication of US leadership on a key global challenge. The Paris agreement commits the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels and "endeavour to limit" them even more, to 1.5C. Only Syria and Nicaragua did not sign up to the deal. Speaking in the White House Rose Garden, Mr Trump characterised the Paris agreement as a deal that aimed to hobble, disadvantage and impoverish the US. He claimed the agreement would cost the US $3tn in lost GDP and 6.5 million jobs - while rival economies like China and India were treated more favourably." In order to fulfil my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens, the United States will withdraw from the Paris climate accord... but begin negotiations to re-enter either the Paris accord or a really entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the United States," he said. The speech contained several rhetorical flourishes reminiscent of his campaign speeches." We don't want other leaders and other countries laughing at us any more - and they won't be," he said."I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris. I promised I would exit or re-negotiate any deal which fails to serve America's interests. Many trade deals will soon be under re-negotiation." The BBC's Rajini Vaidyanathan in Washington says the move will be welcomed by many Trump supporters, as for them this is less about science - and more about sending a signal to so-called global elites. Analysts say the US withdrawal from the Paris agreement will make it more difficult for the world to reach the goals that it set for itself in the Paris agreement. The US contributes about 15% of global emissions of carbon, but it is also a significant source of finance and technology for developing countries in their efforts to fight rising temperatures. Mr Trump did not give a timescale for US withdrawal, but White House sources had earlier suggested it could take up to four years. Former US President Barack Obama, who agreed to the Paris deal, immediately criticised the move, accusing the Trump administration of "rejecting the future". Republican congressional leaders and the US coal industry backed the move, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell supporting Mr Trump "for dealing yet another significant blow to the Obama administration's assault on domestic energy production and jobs". Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called the decision "one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st Century because of the huge damage to our economy, our environment and our geopolitical standing". The leaders of France, Germany and Italy issued a joint statement rejecting a renegotiation of the agreement." We deem the momentum generated in Paris in December 2015 irreversible and we firmly believe that the Paris agreement cannot be renegotiated, since it is a vital instrument for our planet, societies and economies," it said. This was echoed by UK Prime Minister Theresa May, who expressed her disappointment and told Mr Trump in a phone call that the deal protects the "prosperity and security of future generations". Leaders of the Nordic nations - Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Norway, and Iceland - also condemned the move.A United Nations spokeswoman said it was a "major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security". Small island nations whose existence is threatened by rising sea levels were critical of the move. The President of the Marshall Islands, Hilda Heine, said it was "highly concerning for those of us that live on the frontline of climate change". Tech entrepreneur Elon Musk confirmed that he was leaving his role as an adviser to the Trump administration in protest." Am departing presidential councils. Climate change is real. Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world," he tweeted. President Trump's statement is a very clear repudiation of the Paris agreement and international efforts to fund climate mitigation and adaptation in poorer countries. In many ways it is far worse than many had expected. He sees it as a clear job killer, as an economy strangler and a desperately unfair stitch-up by other countries wanting to take economic advantage of the US. He spoke of being open to re-negotiating the deal or trying to build a new agreement - but the idea of "re-negotiation" is an unlikely scenario. The scale of his opposition, seeing the deal as "a massive redistribution of US wealth to other countries" is a clear indication that he has fully bought into an economic nationalist and climate denier perspective. The question of unfairness cropped up again and again, how the world's worst polluters, China and India, had "no meaningful obligations" placed on them by the deal. The overall tone and content of his speech clearly plays to his base but is also a clear disavowal of multilateralism, especially on climate change, and will definitely push other countries more closely together on this issue. Climate change, or global warming, refers to the damaging effect of gases, or emissions, released from industry and agriculture on the atmosphere. The Paris accord is meant to limit the global rise in temperature attributed to emissions.	False
704	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-31	"When it comes to advice the agency receives, the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this: Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	As it relates to grants from this agency, you're going to have to choose," said Pruitt, who described the new rule as a way of ensuring "there's integrity in the process and that the scientists that are advising us are doing so without any kind of appearance of conflict."	Honeycutt once suggested the health risks linked to smog were overstated, described ozone standards as "alarmism" that made "no biological sense" because "most people are indoors for 90 percent of the time," and blasted the EPA for relying on epidemiological studies that he considered "not scientifically rigorous."	"For Pruitt, anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down."	Honeycutt relied heavily on research produced by Michael Dourson, whose consultancy, Toxicology Excellence for Risk Assessment, was described in 2014 by InsideClimate News as the "one-stop science shop" favored by the chemical and tobacco industries.		Scott Pruitt Just Cleared The Way For Industry Control Of EPA's Science Advisory Boards At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy, Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua, in which the pagans are instructed to "choose this day whom you will serve," either God or the "gods of your fathers." As it relates to grants from this agency, you're going to have to choose," said Pruitt, who described the new rule as a way of ensuring "there's integrity in the process and that the scientists that are advising us are doing so without any kind of appearance of conflict." Pruitt described scientists who received as much as $77 million in grants from the agency while also serving on advisory boards as damaging the perception of independent rule-making. Pruitt signed an order cementing the new rules into policy during the 28-minute event, with Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) and Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), two of the most ardent climate change deniers in Congress, at his side." dministrator Pruitt is purging expert scientists from his science boards ― and replacing them with mouthpieces for big polluters," Sen. Tom Udall (D-N.M.) said in a statement. "Now, instead of independent science guiding the way, hired guns for industry will be steering EPA policy on central issues affecting clean air, clean water, and public health." Pruitt said nothing of industry-funded science, which has long been used to kneecap regulations. For many scientists working in a time of limited research budgets, funding from the EPA or other government agencies is one of the few sources available, other than industry money." holly unaddressed by the directive is any counterpart prohibition on scientists funded by industries with conflicts of interest from serving as EPA advisors," Richard Denison, a lead senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund, wrote in a blog post. "When it comes to advice the agency receives, the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this: Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?"The advisory boards, which Congress created as a check on EPA policies and regulations, include the EPA Science Advisory Board, the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC) and the Board of Scientific Counselors. Pruitt said he plans to announce new members of the boards next week, after scientists began quitting the councils in protest earlier this year. While Pruitt's new order rejects anyone who receives funding from the agency, he has named industry allies to those same boards. As part of the announcement, he tapped Michael Honeycutt, the head of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality's toxicology division, to serve as the head of the Science Advisory Board. Honeycutt once suggested the health risks linked to smog were overstated, described ozone standards as "alarmism" that made "no biological sense" because "most people are indoors for 90 percent of the time," and blasted the EPA for relying on epidemiological studies that he considered "not scientifically rigorous." In 2010, the Texas Observer called him a "crony" of then-Gov. Rick Perry (R) and accused him of "abusing science." Honeycutt relied heavily on research produced by Michael Dourson, whose consultancy, Toxicology Excellence for Risk Assessment, was described in 2014 by InsideClimate News as the "one-stop science shop" favored by the chemical and tobacco industries. (Pruitt picked Dourson to lead the agency's chemical safety division last month.)Pruitt also tapped Tony Cox, who runs the private consultancy Cox Associates and produces research for major industry groups, to lead the CASAC. He has done research on lung disease issues for the American Chemistry Council, a trade group for the chemical industry, and research on health effects associated with fine particulate matter and ozone for the American Petroleum Institute, the oil industry's main lobbying group, according to The Intercept. In 2015, he railed against the EPA's plans to tighten rules on ozone emissions. Pruitt appointed Paul Gilman as the head of the Board of Scientific Counselors. Gilman currently serves as the chief sustainability officer at the waste management and incinerator company Covanta. He has been a leading advocate for incinerating trash as a source of fuel for electricity. The trash incinerator industry provides only a tiny fraction of U.S. power, but wields outsize influence in some cities and has attempted to sabotage the U.S. Conference of Mayors' effort to push for 100 percent renewable energy." cott Pruitt doesn't want to listen to a word from anyone who isn't in the pocket of corporate polluters," Sierra Club Executive Director Michael Brune said in a statement. "For Pruitt, anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down."	False
597	The Political Insider	right_bias	2017-06-02	Share your thoughts below!	Throughout much of the 2016 campaign, then-candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public, with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the American people.	his is religion for the political left, and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior," a top White House official told Axios, who added that "snarky comments" from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw.	President Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.	The White House official said "Trump resented the corporate critics who 'ride in fossil-fuel-guzzling planes and SUVs, then act holier-than-thou,'" according to Axios.		President Trump Pulled Out of Paris Deal to Stick it to Elites On Thursday, President Donald J. Trump rejected failed former President Obama's disastrous Paris "global warming" deal that sought to burden our economy with heavy regulations and taxes all to push the left's global warming hysteria. In a Rose Garden speech, President Trump said he rejected the global warming agreement because "I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris," words that the global warming alarmists cannot comprehend. Now, a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam, and it's incredible: specifically, he wanted to stick it to "holier-than-thou" elites in America, specifically leftists who fly around in private jets, drive SUVs, and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact." his is religion for the political left, and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior," a top White House official told Axios, who added that "snarky comments" from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw. The White House official said "Trump resented the corporate critics who 'ride in fossil-fuel-guzzling planes and SUVs, then act holier-than-thou,'" according to Axios. Trump announced he would withdraw the U.S. from the Paris agreement, which the Obama administration joined in 2016 after years of negotiating with United Nations member countries. Some 147 countries have ratified the Paris agreement. Trump said the Paris agreement was poorly negotiated and would harm the U.S. economy. Trump said the deal transferred wealth from the U.S. to economic rivals, like China and India. "I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris," Trump said. It's also important to note that the Obama administration didn't have the authority to commit the United States to a treaty without being ratified by the Senate – a crucial point that the liberal media deliberately ignores in order to attack President Trump. It's been rumored that Trump's liberal son-in-law, Jared Kushner, as well as his daughter Ivanka and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, pushed the President to remain in the global warming deal – but the President chose the American people instead. For years, liberals like Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio have lectured the American public on global warming, yet these hypocrites have bigger carbon footprints than millions of poorer people combined – traveling around the world in private jets accompanied by a fleet of SUVs. Throughout much of the 2016 campaign, then-candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public, with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the American people. President Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism. Are you glad President Trump rejected the Paris deal? Share your thoughts below!	True
801	The New York Times	left_center_bias	2017-04-18	While no decision has been made, experts tracking it say that view is gaining traction."	That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation, the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals.	hey could just submit a new plan," he said.	Koch."	"People internationally would not be happy, but they'd be a lot less unhappy than if the U.S. actually pulled out."		Trump Policy Advisers, Split Over Paris Accord, Will Debate U.S. Role in Pact Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil, has also spoken in favor of "keeping a seat at the table" in the climate pact, and in recent days, major corporations have stepped forward to embrace that position. While no decision has been made, experts tracking it say that view is gaining traction." e do not currently believe the Trump administration plans to withdraw from either Paris agreement," wrote Kevin Book, an analyst at ClearView Energy Partners, a Washington firm, in a memo to clients on Monday. While Mr. Trump does not have the power to undo a multilateral United Nations accord, he could withdraw the world's largest economy from the pact, weakening it substantially. Such a move would win cheers from the nation's most powerful conservative political advocates, and give Mr. Trump bragging rights in coal country. But withdrawing from the landmark accord that committed nearly every nation to take action against planet-warming emissions could create diplomatic blowback, while weakening American leadership in arenas far afield from energy and the environment. Besides, keeping the United States' name on the accord does not obligate the Trump administration to abide by the ambitious emissions-control pledges of Mr. Trump's predecessor, Barack Obama. At least one senior White House climate policy adviser, George David Banks, has advocated staying in the agreement while replacing the Obama plan with a weaker, more industry-friendly pledge. Over recent weeks, Mr. Banks has asked top officials at several major corporations, including Exxon Mobil, who have similar views, to submit letters to the White House confirming their support of staying in the Paris deal, even if in a modified form. In response, Peter Trelenberg, the manager of environmental policy and planning at Exxon Mobil, wrote to Mr. Banks, "Exxon Mobil supports the Paris agreement as an effective framework for addressing the risks of climate change." Royal Dutch Shell and BP, European companies with significant investments in the United States, have also endorsed the accord. Last month, Representative Kevin Cramer, a Republican from oil-, gas- and coal-rich North Dakota, wrote, "The U.S. should present a new pledge that does no harm to our economy." Mr. Cramer, an early supporter of Donald J. Trump, advised Mr. Trump on energy issues during his presidential campaign. Colin Marshall, the chief executive of Cloud Peak, a major coal producer in Wyoming, the nation's largest coal-mining state, also wrote to Mr. Trump: "By remaining in the Paris agreement, albeit with a much different pledge on emissions, you can help shape a more rational international approach to climate policy." Regardless of his decision, Mr. Trump has already undermined the United States' ability to meet its Paris pledge. Mr. Obama declared that the United States would reduce its planet-warming carbon pollution about 26 percent from 2005 levels by 2025. Its primary policy for meeting that target would be the Clean Power Plan, a set of Environmental Protection Agency regulations designed to shutter hundreds of heavily polluting coal-fired power plants, the nation's chief source of greenhouse emissions. Last month, Mr. Trump directed Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, to begin the legal process of dismantling the Clean Power Plan. Whether or not the United States remains in the Paris pact, it almost certainly will not be able to meet its pledged pollution-reduction targets. Mr. Pruitt has emerged as a leading voice for withdrawal from the Paris deal. Last week, he told Fox News, "It's something we need to exit." That reflects the views of powerful conservative political advocacy groups such as Americans for Prosperity, which is funded by the influential libertarian brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch." hat we say to the White House is that it's clearly a terrible agreement for the American people," said Tim Phillips, the president of Americans for Prosperity. That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation, the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals. Harold G. Hamm, the chief executive of Continental Resources and a Trump campaign adviser, has also condemned the pact. "Cancel the Paris climate treaty and any other agreements entered into unilaterally and without the consent of Congress," Mr. Hamm wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump before his inauguration. Bob Murray, the chief executive of the coal company Murray Energy, who is personally close with the president, has also strongly criticized the deal. Mr. Book, the analyst, noted that the risks of withdrawing from the Paris deal include not only diplomatic ill will, but also the possibility of trade reprisals. Countries that tax emissions of carbon dioxide pollution could place a carbon tariff on imports of American-made goods. The European Union currently charges polluters fees for carbon emissions, while China, Mexico and Canada are in the process of carrying out such programs." f the U.S. were to pull out, it would do so in the context that would invite trade reprisals," Mr. Book said. "It could lead to a carbon tariff trade war." Daniel M. Bodansky, an expert in international environmental agreements at Arizona State University, said that remaining in the Paris deal but weakening the United States' commitment could still have the effect of generating some ill will — but without the repercussions of trade sanctions." hey could just submit a new plan," he said. "People internationally would not be happy, but they'd be a lot less unhappy than if the U.S. actually pulled out."	False
537	npr	left_center_bias	2018-10-08	We have a monumental task in front of us," says co-author Natalie Mahowald, from Cornell University, "but it is not impossible."	This is our chance to decide what that road will look like."	Herzog calls most of these extraction ideas "more of a hope than a reality."	In 50 years, she says, "it's going to be very different.	It's expensive, however.		Climate Report Warns Of Extreme Weather, Displacement Of Millions Without Action Climate Report Warns Of Extreme Weather, Displacement Of Millions Without ActionSome of the world's top climate scientists have concluded that global warming is likely to reach dangerous levels unless new technologies are developed to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. The United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) says pledges from the world's governments to reduce greenhouse gases, made in Paris in 2015, aren't enough to keep global warming from rising more than 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees F) above pre-industrial temperatures. That was the Paris agreement's most ambitious target (a 2-degree C rise was established as a more practical goal). But even with a 1.5-degree C increase, the world can expect serious changes to weather, sea levels, agriculture and natural eco-systems, according to a report issued Monday following an IPCC meeting in South Korea." Limiting warming to 1.5 C is possible within the laws of chemistry and physics," says Jim Skea of Imperial College London, one of the authors of the report, "but doing so would require unprecedented changes." Scientists and climate researchers have long doubted that the 1.5-degree C goal was practical or economically feasible. Their new report lays out the difficulty in stark detail: it would require a 40-50 percent reduction in emissions by 2030 (global emissions are currently rising). It would mean a carbon-neutral world — one with no net additional greenhouse gases in the atmosphere — by 2050. They now say that scenario is very unlikely without new measures and technologies to remove greenhouse gases from the air, some of which have yet to be invented." We have a monumental task in front of us," says co-author Natalie Mahowald, from Cornell University, "but it is not impossible." In 50 years, she says, "it's going to be very different. This is our chance to decide what that road will look like." The IPCC report holds out hope that if the global climate warms more than the 1.5-degree, or even the 2-degree target, this "overshoot" could be reversed with carbon removal techniques. It suggests numerous ways to take carbon dioxide (CO2), the leading greenhouse gas, out of the atmosphere. Growing more forests, which absorb CO2, is one tactic. But research shows that the amount of land needed for that would be formidable. Another possibility involves burning biomass to make electricity instead of using fossil fuels. Currently, about 1 percent of electricity in the U.S. is made that way, using things like waste wood and agricultural material. It's expensive, however. Crops like corn are now turned into ethanol, but that raises food prices. To be economical, the biomass would have to be agricultural waste or special crops like switchgrass that don't compete with food crops. There are experimental methods now that can take CO2 directly out of the air, after which it could be buried. But billions of tons of CO2 would have to come out, and these techniques now cost as much as $1,000 to extract a single ton of CO2, according to Howard Herzog, an engineer at MIT who specializes in these "carbon capture" technologies. CO2 is a tiny percentage of the air; Herzog likens the technique to removing 400 "CO2 marbles" from a pile of one million marbles." The best way to remove CO2 from the air," he says in his book Carbon Capture, is "to not release it into the air in the first place." Herzog calls most of these extraction ideas "more of a hope than a reality." He says it comes down to cost, and "it's a lot cheaper to take it out now (by reducing emissions) than in the future." But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals. As the report concludes: "There is no simple answer to the questions of whether it is feasible to limit warming to 1.5 C and to adapt to the consequences...." However, it does make clear the consequences of warming above that level: more heat waves, more severe rain and snow events, higher sea levels, damage to agriculture and displacement of millions of people.	False
366	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-05-03	"It has reached a point that it is like just any other grocery product that you have to buy regularly."	The non-profit group Smog and Kids donated a South Korean-made air ventilation system to a kindergarten in one of the capital's most polluted areas, and the difference in air quality inside and outside the classrooms is palpable.	Pregnant women are among the most avid customers of the Russian-made product, with some saying they are following their doctor's orders.	Dr. Baatar's CEO, Baatar Chantsaldulam, said sales surge by 20 to 30 percent during winter, when pollution tends to reach its peak."	But Maria Neira, the head of the WHO's public health department, said the "real solution" to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it."		Mongolians sip 'oxygen cocktails' to cope with smog... Buildings disappear in the smog in Ulaanbaatar, where residents have resorted to sipping 'lung' tea and 'oxygen cocktails' in a desperate bid to protect themselves from pollution Fed up with the smog in Mongolia's capital, residents have resorted to sipping "lung" tea and "oxygen cocktails" in a desperate bid to protect themselves from pollution, despite health officials saying there is no evidence they work. Ulaanbaatar topped New Delhi and Beijing as the world's most polluted capital in 2016, UNICEF said in a report warning of a health crisis that has put every child and pregnancy at risk. With residents of so-called ger (slum) districts using coal stoves to cook and heat their homes in the world's coldest capital, where temperatures can dip as low as -40 Celsius (-40 Fahrenheit), pollution has skyrocketed. While most of the pollution comes from stoves in the gers, road transport and power plants add to the toxic mix. On January 30, air pollution was 133 times higher than the safe limit set by the World Health Organization (WHO). UNICEF reported that cases of respiratory infections have nearly tripled and pneumonia is now the second leading cause of death for children under five. Worried parents have held protests to press the government to take action. But some businesses are cashing in, even though a WHO official says there is no evidence that such anti-smog products work. Batbayariin Munguntuul sitting with her children while an air purifier runs at her home in Ulaanbaatar Advertisements in Mongolia boast that "drinking just one oxygen cocktail is equal to a three-hour-walk in a lush forest". At the produce section of the State Department Store, blue cans of oxygen called "Life Is Air" are on sale for $2, and promise to turn a glass of juice into a foamy, sweet "oxygen cocktail" after spraying some into a glass through a special straw. Other stores and pharmacies have oxygen cocktail machines that resemble coffee makers and can turn a juice into a frothy drink for $1. Pregnant women are among the most avid customers of the Russian-made product, with some saying they are following their doctor's orders. Batbayar Munguntuul, a 34-year-old accountant and mother of three, drank oxygen cocktails when she was pregnant, but she ended up spending much more money on medicine." Every winter we constantly buy medicine," she told AFP. "It has reached a point that it is like just any other grocery product that you have to buy regularly." Like many other Mongolians, she has chosen to buy an air purifier to make sure her family breathes clean air at home. Her machine, which filters out toxic fumes, cost her $300. The average level of PM2.5 particles -- which penetrate deep into the lungs -- was 75 micrograms per cubic metre last year, or three times the exposure recommended by the WHO for a 24-hour period. Air pollution has been linked to asthma, bronchitis, and other long-term respiratory diseases. Some Mongolians drinking special teas named Enkhjin, Ikh Taiga, and Dr. Baatar that claim to clean lungs. Dr. Baatar's CEO, Baatar Chantsaldulam, said sales surge by 20 to 30 percent during winter, when pollution tends to reach its peak." First it takes all the toxins out of the blood, then it turns the toxins in the lung into mucus, and all the plants in tea helps boost the human immune system," he told AFP. But Maria Neira, the head of the WHO's public health department, said the "real solution" to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it." The business community will offer plenty of those solutions," Neira said, referring to the oxygen cocktails and lung teas." We don't have any scientific evidence whether they provide any benefit," she said." For the past 10 years, people have known that air pollution has reached dangerous levels," Parents Against Smog coordinator Tumur Mandakhjargal told AFP." However, policymakers only address the issue by talking about passing out clean stoves and clean coal," Mandakhjargal said. The NGO says the government should give some 200,000 ger residents access to loans so that they install heating insulation and replace their stoves with cleaner heaters. It also complains that a ger relocation plan has been too slow. The government spent $120 million between 2008-2016 to combat pollution, with half of the funds coming out of its foreign aid revenue. Part of the money has gone to distributing low-emission stoves to residents of ger districts. Last year, the parliament approved a tax exemption for companies that sell air purifiers, while Prime Minister Ukhnaa Khurelsukh issued an order to distribute $1.6 million worth of the appliances to all schools. Non-profit organisations are giving away air purifiers and anti-smog masks to schools, kindergartens and hospitals. The non-profit group Smog and Kids donated a South Korean-made air ventilation system to a kindergarten in one of the capital's most polluted areas, and the difference in air quality inside and outside the classrooms is palpable. Such systems can cost up to $2,500 plus $500 for installation. But Smog and Kids representative Tumendalai Davaadalai said air purifiers were not the answer to the problem." Mobile air purifiers don't give oxygen, they're not plants. The decision by Khurelsukh's cabinet to distribute air purifiers is a very bad decision," Davaadalai said." They are just funding businesses without any positive results."	True
614	NewsBusters	right_bias	2017-09-14	High Flying Celebs Fundraise For Hurricanes, Tout 'Effects of Climate Change' Celebrities often claim to be concerned about the environment, usually without changing their lavish lifestyles or pollution.	During a telethon fundraiser on Sept. 12, for Harvey and Irma relief, celebrities like Beyonce linked manmade climate change to the hurricanes.	But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change, why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	According to Davies, if "driving, pollution from their concerts or films and the electric in their homes are considered," the total was "likely to be astronomic."	In 2011, she co-wrote a USA Today op-ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.		High Flying Celebs Fundraise For Hurricanes, Tout 'Effects of Climate Change' Celebrities often claim to be concerned about the environment, usually without changing their lavish lifestyles or pollution. During a telethon fundraiser on Sept. 12, for Harvey and Irma relief, celebrities like Beyonce linked manmade climate change to the hurricanes. But the very stars participating in the telethon burn massive amounts of carbon dioxide by their extravagant lifestyles, just as Daily Mail reported on Sept. 13." he effects of climate change are playing out around the world every day," Beyonce claimed in a pre-recorded message. But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change, why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?"The A-list celebrities who starred in the telethon for those affected by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma have clocked up hundreds of thousands of air miles which have fuelled rising temperatures and helped create devastating storms," Daily Mail foreign reporter Gareth Davies wrote. Climate change activists often claim carbon emissions from driving and flying are a significant cause of man-made warming. Davies found that, in just the past year, Leonardo DiCaprio, George Clooney, Justin Bieber and Beyonce produced at least 52.11 tons of carbon dioxide with their air travel alone. Bieber's jet-setting had the highest carbon footprint, an egregious 22 tons. In comparison, the average American's total carbon footprint is 20 tons. According to Davies, if "driving, pollution from their concerts or films and the electric in their homes are considered," the total was "likely to be astronomic." Although DiCaprio is a self-proclaimed environmentalist, he continued to live an incompatible lifestyle of massive carbon emissions. For the 2017 Oscars, DiCaprio and a fellow actor flew an someone 15,000 miles round trip to tidy their eyebrows. The actor also asked if "are we too late" to stop climate change and blasted the supposed "corporate greed of the coal, oil and gas industries" in January 2016. All while owning multiple mansions, vacationing on yachts and flying thousands of miles in private jets. Even Forbes noted, "DiCaprio himself is one of those "big polluters," which diminishes his moral authority to lecture others on reducing their own carbon emissions" in March 2016. Forbes also challenged DiCaprio's claim that he only produces 11 tons of carbon annually. Clooney criticized global warming skeptics as "stupid" and "ridiculous" in 2013. Despite his rhetoric on climate change however, the actor and his wife Amal owned eight homes as of March 2016, according to the Daily Mail. Other celebrities like Julia Roberts are also eco-hypocrites. In 2011, she co-wrote a USA Today op-ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change. Yet she has owned five homes and a private jet all at the same time. More than 45 celebrities took part in the fundraiser, which brought in more than $44 million. All of the celebrities most likely live far more lavish, carbon-burning lives than average Americans.	True
681	Vox	left_bias	2017-06-01	Chief among them: a warmer planet is one that's more hospitable to disease.	Humans, likewise pressed by climate impacts, encroach more closely on animal habitats.	These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health.	It's not just the future of the environment that's at stake here.	At a February meeting on climate change and health, former Vice President Al Gore focused his talk on this problem.		Climate change will make people sicker. Trump is pulling out of Paris anyway. President Donald Trump is making good on his campaign promise to pull the US out of the Paris climate agreement — a move that's been called a moral disgrace and that's expected to hinder much needed progress in the fight against global warming.A failure to tackle climate change will mean more extreme weather, dirtier air and water, and more food shortages. It'll also mean more disease. Researchers have long been arguing that the effects of climate change could undermine the last 50 years of gains in global health, increasing the spread of infections like yellow fever and chronic diseases like asthma and heart disease. Now is not the time to be scaling back efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The December 2015 agreement, which has been signed by nearly 200 countries, aimed to cut greenhouse gas emissions and keep global warming below 2 degrees Celsius. (The US had committed to cutting its emissions by up to 28 percent from 2005 levels by 2025.) These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health. America's retreat now could be a major setback. There are a number of ways climate change puts us at a greater risk for disease. Chief among them: a warmer planet is one that's more hospitable to disease. Disease-carrying vectors like mosquitoes thrive in warm and moist environments. Zika, dengue, and chikungunya are all spread by the Aedes type mosquito. And one of the reasons researchers think Aedes may be reaching new places — and more people — lately is climate change. It's not just mosquitoes, though: Bird flu, cholera, Lyme disease, salmonella — researchers believe all are being made worse by climate change. At a February meeting on climate change and health, former Vice President Al Gore focused his talk on this problem. "Climate change is tilting the balance, disrupting natural ecosystems and giving more of an advantage to microbes," he said. "Changing climate conditions change the areas in which these diseases can take root and become endemic." (Read Maryn McKenna's New York Times story for more on this.)In addition, deforestation and urbanization are moving humans into areas where they haven't lived before, and putting them into closer contact with animals that carry disease-causing microbes — like bats during West Africa's 2014 Ebola outbreak. Brian Deese, a senior adviser to President Barack Obama overseeing climate change and energy policy, and former Ebola czar Ron Klain explained why in a piece at the Washington Post:Climate change destroys habitats and stresses animal populations such as the bats of West Africa, forcing them to hunt for food nearer to humans. Humans, likewise pressed by climate impacts, encroach more closely on animal habitats. While we cannot know that climate change was the cause of the specific interaction between bats and humans that is believed to have launched the Ebola outbreak in Guinea, we will see more of these interactions in the future, and more epidemics as a result. Ebola demonstrates that even localized dislocation of people and animals can create global risk. Climate change is a threat multiplier for much broader dislocation — accelerating the complex factors that drive people from their homes. Greenhouse gases are not only harmful to the environment — they also increase the risk of everything from asthma to heart disease. According to the Global Burden of Disease project, more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution, and emissions from coal-fired plants are a major risk factor here. It's one reason why health experts have been pushing policymakers to rapidly phase out of coal. For miners, the immediate health risks include black lung disease and scarring of the lung tissue. But the pollutants emitted when coal is processed — including sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and mercury — have much more far-reaching effects on many more people. In one large study involving 450,000 Americans followed between 1982 and 2004, researchers found that increased exposure to the particles in fossil fuel emissions increased the risk of death from heart disease — and particles from coal burning were five times more damaging than other similar particles. Reducing emissions from coal-fired power plants makes it easier to breathe. Over the past 30 years, the percentage of Americans with asthma has more than doubled, and climate change has been a significant driver of that trend. Air pollution triggers asthma attacks, contributing to lung abnormalities, particularly in the developing pulmonary systems of children. The Paris agreement was no panacea — but it nudged the world in the right direction. Now, the US moves backward. It's not just the future of the environment that's at stake here. Our health hangs in the balance, too.	False
459	vox	left_bias	2018-12-06	ell, I think that both sides have, you know, their own results from their studies, and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science," Craft said.	the interviewer followed up."	Asked, "Do you believe in climate change?"	The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.	The latest National Climate Assessment, written by more than 300 scientists at 13 US federal agencies including the Department of Defense and NASA, for instance, opens with the statement: "Earth's climate is now changing faster than at any point in the history of modern civilization, primarily as a result of human activities."		US ambassador to Canada tries to "both sides" climate science During an interview with CBC, the new US ambassador to Canada, Kelly Craft, claimed she believes "both sides" of climate science. Asked, "Do you believe in climate change?" Craft responded, "I believe there are scientists on both sides that are accurate." Do you believe there is science that proves that man is not causing climate change?" the interviewer followed up." ell, I think that both sides have, you know, their own results from their studies, and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science," Craft said. Though several members of the Trump administration, including President Trump himself, continue to cast doubt on humans' role in the changing climate without providing any evidence, it's simply not a matter on which scientists disagree at all. The latest National Climate Assessment, written by more than 300 scientists at 13 US federal agencies including the Department of Defense and NASA, for instance, opens with the statement: "Earth's climate is now changing faster than at any point in the history of modern civilization, primarily as a result of human activities." The report goes on to detail the toll climate change has already taken on health, quality of life, and the economy of the US and how those impacts will mount if emissions are not dramatically reduced in the coming years. "With continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century — more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many U.S. states," according to the assessment. The Trump administration released the report ahead of schedule on the Friday after Thanksgiving — a move many interpreted as an attempt to bury the findings. The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. And Trump has appointed a number of officials like Craft whose allegiance to industry is clear. In 2016, Craft reportedly donated $265,400 toward Trump's election and $17,000 to the Republican National Committee. Craft's husband, Joseph Craft, is a billionaire coal magnate. A Global News report from 2017 provides some details about him:While the Crafts have a personal financial stake in pushing climate denialism, other prominent Republicans have tried to tamp down on the conclusions of the Climate Assessment by citing concerns about the impact curbing greenhouse gas emissions would have on "industry and jobs." But as Vox's David Roberts has detailed, "[t]here is no consistent evidence that environmental regulations cause long-term changes in overall employment."	False
790	Yahoo News	left_center_bias	2017-06-01	Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreement's goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	e are watching with bated breath," the team wrote.	he calving event will probably be slow and graceful," the scientists of Project MIDAS wrote.	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change, the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities."	Rising sea levels endanger heavily populated cities such as New York, San Francisco, New Orleans and Miami, and are predicted to cause 13.1 million Americans to relocate from coastal areas by 2100.		Massive Crack in Antarctic Ice Shelf Grows 11 Miles in 6 Days, Potentially Creating World's Largest Iceberg An aerial view of the Antarctic Peninsula's Larsen C ice shelf. According to NASA, IceBridge scientists measured the Larsen C fracture to be about 70 miles long, more than 300 feet wide and about a third of a mile deep. (Photo: John Sonntag/NASA via AP)In the six days before President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change, an enormous crack in an Antarctic ice shelf grew 11 miles, according to a report by British Antarctic research group Project MIDAS. The crack, which is located in Larson Shelf C, leaves only eight miles of ice connecting what could be one of the world's largest recorded icebergs to Antarctica. When it eventually breaks free from the continent, the resulting iceberg will measure 31,000 square miles, represent 10 percent of the ice shelf's original mass and be larger than the state of Rhode Island. The growth spurt between May 25 and May 31 was the largest they have observed since January, Project MIDAS says, and the inevitable splintering of Ice Shelf C will drastically alter the landscape of the continent and will make the ice that remains less stable. The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change, the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities." hen [ice shelves] disappear, ice can flow faster from the land to the ocean and contribute more quickly to sea level rise," Adrian Luckman and Martin O'Leary of Project MIDAS wrote in February. Rising sea levels endanger heavily populated cities such as New York, San Francisco, New Orleans and Miami, and are predicted to cause 13.1 million Americans to relocate from coastal areas by 2100. Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreement's goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures. Project MIDAS expects the ice shelf to mimic the break up of Larson Ice Shelf B, which shattered over a period of two weeks in 2002." he calving event will probably be slow and graceful," the scientists of Project MIDAS wrote. "The ice is already floating, so when the fracture breaks all the way through, it will simply start to drift away." The group is unsure exactly when the rapidly growing crack will cause Ice Shelf C to break free from Antarctica, but believes that the rift has now reached a region of soft ice and that there is very little holding the ice shelf together." e are watching with bated breath," the team wrote.	False
522	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-03-23	Scientists say governments, businesses, and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming, fishing, forestry, mining, or infrastructure development.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia, leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said: "We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have."	The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life.	Academic volunteers looked through some 10,000 scientific publications for what is said to be the most extensive biodiversity survey since 2005.	Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution, climate change, and deforestation.		Half of African species 'face extinction' The actions of mankind could lead to the extinction of half of African birds and mammals by the end of 2100, a UN-backed study has said. The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life. It also found 42% of land-based animal and plant species in Europe and Central Asia have declined in the last decade. The findings come after the death of the last male northern white rhino. Despite the bleak findings, the study also pointed to some successes in reversing declines in wildlife. The study by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) showed forest cover in China and other parts of north-east Asia had risen by more than 20% between 1990 and 2015. It also found that animals, such as the amur leopard, which were once on the verge of the extinction had grown in population. Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia, leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said: "We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have." Fortunately, the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets." Academic volunteers looked through some 10,000 scientific publications for what is said to be the most extensive biodiversity survey since 2005. Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution, climate change, and deforestation. Scientists say governments, businesses, and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming, fishing, forestry, mining, or infrastructure development.	False
838	RT	questionable_source	2017-07-06	This technology is worth billions of dollars a year.	She said it was clear that the planet once had rivers and great amounts of water, and possibly an atmosphere similar to ours, "but a global catastrophe had happened."	They (USDA) are really taking their time with it becuase they know there is overwhelming public opposition to [the plan]," Petermann told RT.	The agency will now evaluate the comments for a final review on whether to approve the GE trees.	Eucalyptus trees are the number one industrial tree plantation used in Latin America, Africa and Asia, traditionally in tropical areas, where commerce appreciates their fast growth and versatility."		250,000 Americans, 500 groups reject genetically-modified eucalyptus trees Over 250,000 Americans and 500 organizations submitted comments rejecting the US Department of Agriculture's (USDA) proposal to approve genetically-engineered eucalyptus trees for planting. If approved, the trees would be planted in seven southern states. Public comments on the USDA's draft environmental impact statement (dEIS) closed on Wednesday. The agency will now evaluate the comments for a final review on whether to approve the GE trees. Activists from the South Pacific Islands, Southern Asia and North and South America weighed in, rejecting all genetically-engineered trees, including field trials. Critics of the dEIS said the USDA downplayed the risks posed by the GE trees. The agency predicts GE eucalyptus plantations would cover over 1 million across seven states from coastal South Carolina to eastern Texas. The GE eucalyptus trees, developed by biotech companies such as FuturaGene and ArborGen, are designed to tolerate freezing temperatures and to help feed demand for pulp and paper production, biomass pellets for electricity and fuel for cars. Anne Petermann, executive director at the Global Justice Ecology Project, said the tradition has been for the government to rubberstamp genetically-engineered organisms "but this would be the first time they are approving a genetically-engineered forest tree." She said ArborGen asked for approval to legalize the trees six years ago." They (USDA) are really taking their time with it becuase they know there is overwhelming public opposition to [the plan]," Petermann told RT. Petermann said there is a lack of independent research on the long-term, or even short-term, consequences of putting genetically-engineered trees out into the environment, and that the risks could be significant." e are talking about forest ecosystems that have evolved over millions of years," Petermann said. "Planting eucalyptus trees, with mutations in their genomes - how are these organisms going to interact with the forest? How are they going to interact with soil micro-organisms? Those studies have not been done, and that is one of the major points in the comments." Petermann said if the studies were to be done they would have to be carried out over the full life of the tree, between 50 to 100 years. As that is not likely to happen, she said "there is no way to know the full scope of the risks." Eucalyptus trees are the number one industrial tree plantation used in Latin America, Africa and Asia, traditionally in tropical areas, where commerce appreciates their fast growth and versatility." he forest products industry is worth $400 billion a year. This technology is worth billions of dollars a year. If you can increase yields by 40 percent, you can greatly reduce prices. Eucalyptus today are harvested at seven years – in Brazil we are looking to produce the same sized trees in five and a half years," Stanley Hirsch, chief executive of the Israeli biotech company FuturaGene, told the Guardian in 2012 over its plans to plant GM eucalyptus in Brazil. Documented as an invasive species around the world, the trees have escaped the limits of their plantations in South Africa and shown up in native grasslands, and in Chile where they are showing up in the forests. In the US, the trees only grow in Southern Florida and California, hence the need for a genetically-engineered variety to withstand temperature variations in other states. Petermann said another red flag is wildfires. She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead, and one that happened in Chile in January. Both were fed by eucalyptus plantations." ucalyptus is extremely flammable," said Petermann. "Combine that with dry conditions, which these trees exacerbate because they drink so much, you end with these incredible firestorms. The US southeast is already experiencing repeated droughts, it is already experiencing heatwaves, it is the last place to plant a eucalyptus plantation." Among other commentators was former NASA scientist Kate Cato, who lives in the US south and has mapped parts of Mars. She said it was clear that the planet once had rivers and great amounts of water, and possibly an atmosphere similar to ours, "but a global catastrophe had happened." She said the effects of invasive species such as kudzu, lionfish and Australian pines have already caused chaos in the southern states where they lack predators and displace native plants and animals, and already cost the states millions of dollars in losses and eradication.	False
223	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-11-06	The result is then classified on a scale from good to hazardous."	And of course it's the elderly who suffer, the very young and people with pre-existing respiratory illnesses like or heart problems."	The effect of pollution is different for every person," explains Dr Christine Cowie of the University of New South Wales."	And you can't underestimate how important agricultural burning is - even though people often think only of cars and heavy industry as the causes."	In this episode, the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning," assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC."		Why is India's pollution much worse than China's? As India's north continues to struggle with extreme pollution levels, the story has put a fresh spotlight on air quality in cities across Asia. Beijing has long been notorious for its smog - but statistics show that India, Pakistan and Bangladesh have worse air by far. So why is South Asia so much more polluted?Of the world's most polluted 30 cities, 22 are in India, according to research by IQ AirVisual, a Swiss-based group that gathers air-quality data globally, and Greenpeace. The remaining eight cities are all in Pakistan, Bangladesh and China - but the list doesn't include Beijing, which comes in at number 122. Just looking at global capitals, it's also Asian cities that top the ranking. Looking at overall countries, it's Bangladesh that has the worst air, followed by Pakistan and then India. All these rankings are based on average air quality per year. As these countries have very different densities of measuring stations and transparency of data, the statistics have to be read with a degree of caution. But they certainly indicate an overall trend.• The fight against air pollution in three global citiesWhy is India worse off than China?Pollution in urban areas is usually a mix of different factors - mostly traffic, fossil fuel burning power plants and heavy industries. What differentiates China from India is that in the latter, there is still a lot of burning of agricultural stubble when farmers want to clear their fields. The burning usually takes place in autumn." In this episode, the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning," assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC." That's one thing that China has tackled. All agricultural burning has been banned, full stop."A global overview for fires and thermal abnormalities is made available by Nasa, and allows users to track developments over past days and weeks. The area north-west of Delhi shows a highly unusual concentration of fires, Prof Smith points out." And you can't underestimate how important agricultural burning is - even though people often think only of cars and heavy industry as the causes." In the wake of the pollution spike, India's Supreme Court ordered a stop to stubble burning in the states around Delhi. But the city's situation is made worse by the colder winter air which is more stagnant, trapping the pollutants in place. Prof Smith also points out that "while India is largely reactive, Beijing tends to be more proactive and preventative to try to stop the problems from happening in the first place". What does pollution feel like?Pollution levels are categorised by measuring the levels of dangerous particles in the air. The result is then classified on a scale from good to hazardous." The effect of pollution is different for every person," explains Dr Christine Cowie of the University of New South Wales." Some people complain about irritation to the eyes, to the throat, exacerbations of wheeze and asthma symptoms. Coughing is certainly also a very common symptom - even in non-asthmatic people." And of course it's the elderly who suffer, the very young and people with pre-existing respiratory illnesses like or heart problems." She explains that even a short exposure to the unhealthy or worse pollution levels can trigger an asthma attack or increase the risk of a stroke. The longer the exposure, the greater the risks. And the ways to protect oneself are limited. There's the advice to stay indoors, to reduce physical exercise and to wear a mask - but in many poorer parts of the world, none of these options really work for regular people." It is toxic air," says David Taylor, professor of tropical environmental change at the National University of Singapore." It must be very uncomfortable - especially if you're having to work outside and if you're having to do jobs that require quite a lot of energy." You feel like it's hard to breathe," agrees Prof Smith." It's like doing hardcore exercise when you just take a walk outside. And depending on the kind of pollution, you can of course also smell it in the air." How does it compare to Europe or the US?Today, pollution levels in Europe, Australia and the US are significantly lower than the extreme readings that India has experienced in the past few days. But it's not always been like that. London, for instance, was notorious for its pollution during much of the 19th and early 20th centuries. As late as 1952, the so-called Great Smog covered London with a thick toxic layer of pollution, bringing the city almost to a standstill for days, not unlike the situation in Delhi now. It's thought to have resulted in thousands of deaths. While London experienced a different mix of pollutants, "it probably wasn't far off what's currently happening in Delhi," says Mr Taylor. Back then, power stations along the Thames were major polluters of the British capital. In fact - much of what we know today about the health impact of air pollution dates back to the experiences of the London smog during those years.	False
403	cnn	left_bias	2018-08-23	"They're a matter of life or death."	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue," he said.	At this year's State of the Union address, Trump talked about ending "the war on beautiful, clean coal."	Throughout his campaign and presidency, Trump has lauded his plan to replace the Obama administration's climate change policies with rules and regulations that would be more friendly toward the coal industry.	Coal miner: Trump's 'false promises' will 'only line the pockets' of executives A fifth-generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry, saying the President is making "false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives."		Coal miner: Trump's 'false promises' will 'only line the pockets' of executives A fifth-generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry, saying the President is making "false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives." In a New York Times op-ed video published Tuesday, Nick Mullins, a ninth-generation Appalachian from Virginia, said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him, "lowering emission standards is not the way to do it." At this year's State of the Union address, Trump talked about ending "the war on beautiful, clean coal." Mullins says "coal cannot be clean," and that miners know firsthand." We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue," he said. "They're a matter of life or death." On Tuesday, the newly proposed Affordable Clean Energy Rule was announced , which would allow states to set their own emission standards for coal-fueled power plants. Throughout his campaign and presidency, Trump has lauded his plan to replace the Obama administration's climate change policies with rules and regulations that would be more friendly toward the coal industry. The Obama administration's Clean Power Plan made greenhouse gas emissions federally regulated for the first time.	True
415	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-04-12	In what could be the most controversial part, the order requires the EPA's science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rules, something for which industry groups have clamored for years.	his is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters – it's nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science, gut our clean air protections, and put polluter profits ahead of our health," Sara Jordan, a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters, said in a statement.	"It could mean yet more pollution in their neighborhoods."	he purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected, EPA won't second guess it," Stan Meiburg, a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency, told HuffPost by phone.	"It's a go-ahead for industry that if they take their best shot at states, the EPA won't be getting in the way."		White House Abruptly Orders EPA To Loosen Clean Air Rules In Polluter Giveaway The executive order ― titled "Promoting Domestic Manufacturing and Job Creation ― Policies and Procedures Relating to Implementation of Air Quality Standards" ― reverses an Obama-era decision. The 2015 decision allowed the EPA to intervene in states that fail to meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards, forcing them to adopt federal regulatory plans to reduce ozone emissions that generally come from power plants, refineries and cement factories. It opens the door to drastic changes in how science is used to set clean air rules, disqualifying huge amounts of peer-reviewed public health research in favor of industry-backed studies in a move that builds on steps EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has already taken. The order requires the EPA to speed up reviews of state plans to reduce air pollution, setting a strict 18-month deadline, and complete reviews of all pre-construction permits for industry within a year. Construction permitting is primarily a state-level issue; the language in the order, critics say, appears to be a dog whistle to polluters, suggesting the EPA would pull back on any oversight." he purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected, EPA won't second guess it," Stan Meiburg, a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency, told HuffPost by phone. "It's a go-ahead for industry that if they take their best shot at states, the EPA won't be getting in the way." The order instructs the EPA to consider what countries that don't border the United States are doing to reduce pollution, allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India. It also directs Pruitt to allow states to trade pollution permits, a move environmentalists warn could make offsets nearly impossible to track and police. In what could be the most controversial part, the order requires the EPA's science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rules, something for which industry groups have clamored for years. They argue the policies could raise electricity costs and make things like air conditioning more expensive. That directive is likely to prompt watchdog groups to sue. The Supreme Court ruled unanimously in 2001, in a decision written by late Justice Antonin Scalia, that the EPA cannot consider the costs of implementation when setting air quality standards. It marks the latest assault on clean air rules, putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk. People living below the poverty line were exposed to 1.35 times more particulate matter than those living above it, according to a landmark EPA study released in February. People of color breathe in 1.2 times more particulate matter pollution, and black people, in particular, are on average exposed to 1.54 times more particulate matter pollution than the general pollution. The National Association of the Advancement of Colored People released a report in February that found black people are exposed to air that is 38 percent more polluted than white people on average, and they are 75 percent more likely to live in communities abutting industrial sites." eople who are most affected by air pollution are the most vulnerable and these policy changes would mean even less protection for those people," Janet McCabe, who served as the assistant administrator for the EPA's Office of Air and Radiation until 2017, told HuffPost by phone. "It could mean yet more pollution in their neighborhoods." The new order could put the administration at loggerheads with California regulators again. But the quiet rollout of the memorandum avoided swift criticisms. The California Air Resources Board told HuffPost the agency had not yet reviewed the ordered by Thursday afternoon." his is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters – it's nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science, gut our clean air protections, and put polluter profits ahead of our health," Sara Jordan, a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters, said in a statement.	False
250	rt	questionable_source	2019-05-19	Think your friends would be interested?	Read 'Real Clear Politics' – it will tell you about how I started this whole thing back in 1987 – climate change."	Share this story!	Social media users were quick to criticize Biden's response, with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change, and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didn't really work out so well.	Congressman Al Gore held House hearings on climate change in 1976, and as a senator introduced a resolution calling for a research program into greenhouse gas emissions in 1985.		Joe Biden mocked for claiming to have started the climate change movement (VIDEO) Joe Biden has been roundly mocked on Twitter after making the unlikely claim to a young activist appealing for a presidential debate on climate change that he kicked-off the whole global warming movement back in the late 1980s.A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group. Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished, asking, "By the way, did you know I'm the guy who did all this? Read 'Real Clear Politics' – it will tell you about how I started this whole thing back in 1987 – climate change." Social media users were quick to criticize Biden's response, with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change, and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didn't really work out so well. Biden has repeatedly boasted of his 80's climate change concern, telling voters he was the first to introduce a climate bill. In 1987, Biden delivered a Senate speech warning of the dangers of global warming, and his Global Climate Protection Act called for setting up a task force to plan to tackle the issue. While he is the first to have a climate bill passed, he certainly isn't the first politician to raise the alarm about climate change, let alone have 'started' the whole thing. Congressman Al Gore held House hearings on climate change in 1976, and as a senator introduced a resolution calling for a research program into greenhouse gas emissions in 1985. The following year, Republican Senator John Chafee held Senate climate hearings warning of the "serious problem" and featuring an expert explaining that 'significant' warming could happen within 5-15 years. Biden has been criticized for reportedly planning a 'middle ground' approach to climate policy that is accused of lacking urgency and not going far enough. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
279	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-09-24	Thunberg documented parts of her journey on Twitter, where she included videos of choppy weather conditions, photos of herself and the crew, and commentaries about climate change.	People are suffering, people are dying, entire ecosystems are collapsing, and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	The Swedish teenager named this week's UN Climate Action Summit and the Chile conference in December as her main reasons for crossing the Atlantic.	'You have stolen my dreams, my childhood with your empty words.	Her protests have inspired wealthy donors to contribute to a Climate Emergency Fund to support the protests and the simultaneous Extinction Rebellion movement.		Greta Thunberg doesn't know how she will return to Sweden Teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg has already caused a sensation on her trip to North America, tearing into world leaders yesterday in an emotional speech at the United Nations and giving a death stare to Donald Trump. What is not yet clear is how the 16-year-old will get back to Sweden, because she refuses to travel on fuel-guzzling planes and the 60ft racing boat she travelled on is already back in Europe. Two crew members have flown to the U.S. to sail the Malizia II back across the Atlantic and it is not yet clear exactly when Thunberg will be going home. When she set off from Britain last month she admitted: 'I don't know yet how I will get home'. Non-stop flights from London to New York City take between eight to ten hours for a 3,470-mile journey. It equates to about 183,910 pounds of emissions per flight between the two cities and Thunberg refuses to add to the environmental cost. She has also persuaded her parents to stop flying, hampering her mother's career as an international opera singer.'My generation won't be able to fly other than for emergencies, in a foreseeable future if we are to be the least bit serious' about limiting global warming, she has previously said. Thunberg also refuses to travel aboard a cruise ship, as they are also notoriously big polluters. The Malizia II is now back in France after sailing back from New York without Thunberg. Unless the Malizia II returns to North America she will have to find a different mode of transport back across the Atlantic when she eventually leaves. In the meantime, she plans to promote her climate agenda across North America. This week she will travel from New York to Montreal to join a school climate strike in Canada on what is expected to be a day of global protests. She also hopes to visit Mexico, and is due in Chile for a climate summit in December, travelling across the Americas by bus and train. The 16-year-old is taking a year out of school to lobby for climate action after starting the school strike movement in Sweden last August. She skipped school for the first three weeks after term began and then took Fridays off to spend the day outside Sweden's parliament with a sign labelled 'School strike for climate'. Her protests have inspired wealthy donors to contribute to a Climate Emergency Fund to support the protests and the simultaneous Extinction Rebellion movement. Its donors include heiress Aileen Getty, American philanthropist Trevor Neilson, and filmmaker Rory Kennedy, a member of the political Kennedy clan. The Swedish teenager named this week's UN Climate Action Summit and the Chile conference in December as her main reasons for crossing the Atlantic. She said last year she had been invited to speak around the world but refused to make the necessary flights. But in June she said 'it looks like a large part of our future will probably be decided in New York and Santiago' and agreed to travel to North America on the yacht. Pierre Casiraghi, the grandson of Monaco's late Prince Rainier III and American actress Grace Kelly, and fellow yachtsman Boris Herrmann offered her passage on the Malizia II. She arrived last month after a two-week journey aboard the racing yacht. Thunberg documented parts of her journey on Twitter, where she included videos of choppy weather conditions, photos of herself and the crew, and commentaries about climate change. Last week she joined a school strike in New York City where school officials allowed pupils the day off to attend the protest. In her impassioned address yesterday she said: 'This is all wrong. I shouldn't be up here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean.'Yet you have come to us young people for hope. How dare you? 'You have stolen my dreams, my childhood with your empty words.'Yet I'm one of the lucky ones. People are suffering, people are dying, entire ecosystems are collapsing, and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you?''The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this.'Trump sent a mocking tweet, saying: 'She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see!'Fewer than half the 136 heads of government or state in New York this week to attend the UN General Assembly attended on Monday. Ahead of the conference, the United Nations issued a release saying 66 countries vowed to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, along with 10 regions, 102 cities, and scores of businesses.	True
92	shareblue	left_bias	2019-06-19	Published with permission of The American Independent.	In both 2017 and 2018, the number of unhealthy air days in metropolitan areas increased 15% compared to the last four years of President Obama's administration, the Associated Press reported Tuesday.	The new rule "is really a dereliction of duty — moral, ethical, but also legal," Andres Restrepo, a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program, told the Post.	While Trump has been in office, the air has gotten dirtier.	Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100,000 Americans every year, the AP reports, and Trump's own EPA shows not only worse air pollution, but a significant increase in the two worst categories: "very unhealthy" and "hazardous" conditions.		Trump brags about 'crystal clean' air — but his own EPA admits it's gotten dirtier Trump regularly brags about making America's air cleaner, but evidence from his own Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) shows the opposite is happening: The air we breathe is getting dirtier. New EPA data shows that since 2016, a decades-long trend of improving air quality has started to backslide. In both 2017 and 2018, the number of unhealthy air days in metropolitan areas increased 15% compared to the last four years of President Obama's administration, the Associated Press reported Tuesday. That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims. During his embarrassing trip to Ireland in early June, Trump said, "We have the cleanest air in the world, in the United States, and it's gotten better since I'm president." At his big rally Tuesday in Orlando, Trump made a similar false claim: "We have among the cleanest and sharpest — crystal clean, you've heard me say it, I want it crystal clean — air and water anywhere on Earth." Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100,000 Americans every year, the AP reports, and Trump's own EPA shows not only worse air pollution, but a significant increase in the two worst categories: "very unhealthy" and "hazardous" conditions. During the Trump administration, U.S. cities saw air pollution in one of these two categories nearly 140 times, which is almost three times as often as the average from 2013 to 2016. In fact, the AP notes that the four years from 2013 and 2016, Obama's second term in office, were a "clean air heyday" for America that boasted the fewest unhealthy air days since 1980. That heyday appears to be over for now. To make matters worse, on Wednesday the EPA finalized what will be its "biggest climate policy rollback," according to the Washington Post. The new rule will allow coal plants to spew more pollution into the air than a previous rule put in place by President Obama. The new rule "is really a dereliction of duty — moral, ethical, but also legal," Andres Restrepo, a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program, told the Post. Scientists are unclear as to the exact reasons air pollution has gotten worse under Trump, but they say it's very clear that his policies will make the situation worse." There is zero reason to expect any other outcome" than worsening air quality if Trump continues to roll back regulations, Neil Donahue, an engineering professor at Carnegie Mellon University, told the AP. While Trump has been in office, the air has gotten dirtier. His lies don't make it cleaner, and his policies are on track to make it worse. Published with permission of The American Independent.	False
765	Fusion	left_center_bias	2017-05-12	e hope that loss contributes towards a dialogue about what to do about it," he said.	"It's important that the data is out there and is being discussed."	Future tourists will be confronted by a vista devoid of glaciers, a loss that Farge said will be "poignant"."	Last year, 2.9m people visited Glacier national park.	This story was originally published by The Guardian US and is reproduced here as part of Climate Desk.		The contiguous U.S. will be glacier-free within decades thanks to global warming wikimedia commonsIt's now "inevitable" that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades, according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana. Warming temperatures have rapidly reduced the size of 39 named glaciers in Montana since 1966, according to comparisons released by the US Geological Survey (USGS) and Portland State University. Some have lost as much as 85% of their expanse over the past 50 years, with Glacier national park, site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers, set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades. Of the 150 glaciers that existed in the park in the late 19th century, only 26 remain. The disappearance of glaciers in Montana is part of a broader loss that will see all glaciers, defined as moving bodies of snow and ice larger than 25 acres, largely vanish from the lower 48 states of America by the mid point of the century, according to Dr Daniel Farge, lead USGS scientist." t's inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades," Farge said. "The Colorado glaciers started melting before Montana's and while there are larger glaciers in the Pacific north-west that will hold on longer, the number vanishing will steadily grow until none are left." Andrew Fountain, a geologist at Portland State, added: "While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US, it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale." Rising temperatures – Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average – and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains. Last year, scientists in Colorado found that the Arikaree glacier, which is likely more than 1,000 years old, has been thinning by around a metre (3.2ft) a year over the past decade and will vanish within 25 years.  Warming winters are bringing more rain, rather than glacier-forming snow, to Montana and other states. Even when there is plenty of snow, as Montana experienced this winter, the increasing heat of spring and summer is melting it away more quickly. Spring snow melts are now occurring at least two weeks earlier than they were in the 1960s. Scientists analyzed the extent of the 39 Montanan glaciers by studying aerial and satellite imagery stretching back to 1966. The latest data, from 2015, shows that there are now just 26 glaciers larger than 25 acres. The largest, Harrison glacier, is now 410 acres – a 19% decrease over the past 50 years. Others have declined by up to 85%. Glaciers have been in this stretch of the northern Rockies for around 7,000 years and the study of tree ring data and piles of rocks left behind by shifting glaciers show there were around 150 of the ice formations in the Glacier national park area in 1850. Most have now disappeared. Farge said glaciers started to shrink from around 1910 and then entered "rapid and continual" melting from the 1970s onwards. The environmental conditions now experienced in the region are a marked departure from historical norms." he glaciers have waxed and waned with different climate fluctuations but this is the first time they are heading for almost certain extinction," Farge said." his is the first time in 7,000 years they've experienced this temperature and precipitation. There's no hope for them to survive. We'd need a major reversal where it would get cooler, not just stop getting warmer. There's nothing to suggest that will happen." Farge said the decline of the glaciers outlined in the research is probably conservative as it focuses upon the extent of the glaciers, not the volume. Thinning glacier ice may cover a reasonable area but is particularly vulnerable to further warming and melting. Last year, 2.9m people visited Glacier national park. Future tourists will be confronted by a vista devoid of glaciers, a loss that Farge said will be "poignant"." e hope that loss contributes towards a dialogue about what to do about it," he said. "It's important that the data is out there and is being discussed." According to Nasa, the world's glaciers have lost around 400bn tons of ice per year since 1994, a decline that has impacted wildlife, increased wildfire risk in places and contributed to rapid sea level rise. This story was originally published by The Guardian US and is reproduced here as part of Climate Desk.	False
383	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-11-05	Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health, but opponents say it's a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking.	Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man-made global warming.	Voters from Washington to Florida will be able to partake in important energy policy decisions for their states.	(RELATED: Severe Storms Brewing For Election Day, Threaten To Swing Tight Races)Washington voters will decide whether or not to tax carbon dioxide emissions, a policy championed by Democratic Gov.	Opponents have attacked the ballot measure for its odd pairing of issues — smoking and offshore drilling.		These Six States Have Energy And Global Warming On The Ballot This Election There is a wave of energy-related ballot initiatives for voters to weigh in on this election year. Voters from Washington to Florida will be able to partake in important energy policy decisions for their states. Will Washington become the first state to tax carbon dioxide emissions? Will California undo a gas tax increase passed just seven months ago?The Daily Caller News Foundation lays out everything one needs to know about the six most important energy battles this election. (RELATED: Severe Storms Brewing For Election Day, Threaten To Swing Tight Races)Washington voters will decide whether or not to tax carbon dioxide emissions, a policy championed by Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man-made global warming. The ballot measure, called Initiative 1631, would tax carbon dioxide emissions from industrial sources at $15 per ton in 2020, which would increase every year to reduce emissions. Supporters say the measure could raise more than $1 billion in revenue. Opponents, however, point out a carbon tax would raise the price of virtually every good while having no impact on future global warming. The tax would cost households and extra $175 per year in 2020, according to some estimates. The battle of Initiative 1631 has become the most expensive in state history, so far drawing $45 million from both sides of the policy. Carbon tax opponents, led by the oil and gas industry, pumped $30 million into opposing the ballot measure, and proponents have spent $15 million. An October poll found 50 percent of Washington voters favored the carbon tax, while 36 percent opposed it. Colorado voters could end up banning hydraulic fracturing in most of the state. Polls show strong support for Proposition 112. The ballot measure, if enacted, would prohibit oil and gas drilling within 2,500 feet of any building or "vulnerable" area, including waterways and playgrounds. That's more than double the current state buffer for oil and gas operations.A September poll put support for Proposition 112 at 60 percent, but many prominent Democrats have come out against the measure. Democratic opponents include former Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and former Gov. Bill Ritter. Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health, but opponents say it's a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking. The measure would ban oil and gas drilling on more than 80 percent of non-federal lands in the state, experts said. California voters seem poised to repeal a gas tax hike signed into law only seven months ago that added an extra 12 cents per gallon and up to a $175 license fee for vehicle registration.A University of California-Berkeley poll from October found nearly 58 percent of voters opposed the gas tax increase. The political battle heated up that month when gas tax opponents threatened to recall Attorney General Xavier Becerra, a Democrat, for allegedly trying to mislead voters about the proposal. Gas tax repeal proponents are also backing an initiative to halt spending on California's high-speed rail project and use any unspent funds to improve roads. Tom Steyer Is Behind Ballot Measures In Arizona and NevadaLiberal billionaire Tom Steyer's campaign group, NextGen Climate Action is backing ballot measures in Arizona and Nevada that would require both states to get 50 percent of their electricity from renewables, like wind and solar. Steyer pumped more than $20 million into the campaign, but opponents accused Steyer's group of using "forged" and "fake" signatures to get the green energy mandate on Arizona's ballot. Steyer's group has spent more than $10 million in support of Nevada's green ballot measure. Pinnacle West, the parent company of Arizona's largest utility, spent more than $30 million opposing the green energy mandate, according to Ballotpedia. Under current laws, Arizona is required to get 15 percent of its electricity from renewables, and Nevada utilities are required to get 25 percent of their power from green sources. Florida To Decide On Offshore Drilling … And Vaping?Florida's Amendment 9 ballot measure, if enacted, would ban offshore oil and gas drilling in state waters and ban e-cigarettes from being used in enclosed workplaces. The measure is backed by Democratic and environmental groups opposed to offshore drilling, and apparently vaping indoors. It's opposed by Republicans, the oil and gas industry and the Consumer Advocates for Smoke-Free Alternatives Association, a group that advocates for e-cigarettes. Opponents have attacked the ballot measure for its odd pairing of issues — smoking and offshore drilling. Many opponents of offshore drilling ended up opposing the measure because of its prohibition on vaping indoors." hile our editorial board opposes offshore drilling in state waters, we also are philosophically opposed to the Constitution Revision Commission's 'bundling' of these unrelated issues into a single amendment," the editorial board of Treasure Coast Newspapers wrote in October.	False
453	vox	left_bias	2018-02-22	"Enforcement matters, especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows."	He noted that many of these civil cases take months to complete, so some of the cases completed under Trump started under Obama.	But one of EPA's most important jobs is to enforce civil penalties for companies that breach limits for hazardous chemicals like sulfur dioxide and hydrochloric acid.	And as I pointed out last month in this feature story, he's also overseen a drastic slowdown in the day-to-day work of the agency.	And one new measure of Pruitt's foot-dragging that's just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.		How Trump is letting polluters off the hook, in one chart In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark, shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama-era environmental regulations as possible. And as I pointed out last month in this feature story, he's also overseen a drastic slowdown in the day-to-day work of the agency. Key offices remain vacant and the implementation of new environmental rules has stalled, effectively throttling the agency. But one of EPA's most important jobs is to enforce civil penalties for companies that breach limits for hazardous chemicals like sulfur dioxide and hydrochloric acid. And one new measure of Pruitt's foot-dragging that's just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately. According to a new report from the Environmental Integrity Project, a watchdog group that advocates for enforcement of environmental laws, the amount of fines collected by Trump's EPA has plummeted compared to the agency under the past three presidents in their first year in office. Check out this chart:The fines come from consent decrees, a type of legal settlement where a party has to take a specific action but does not have to admit fault or liability. The consent decrees here involve violations of federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. (This tally doesn't include penalties from EPA's Superfund program, criminal cases, or the administrative actions that EPA takes to resolve smaller violations.)The number of civil cases filed by the EPA to collect these fines in the first place has also declined. In President Clinton's first year, there were 73; under Bush, 112; under Obama, 71. In 2017, there were just 48 cases. What this means is that the EPA is not going after polluters like it used to." ess enforcement doesn't mean there aren't a whole lot of violations that are out there," said Eric Schaeffer, executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project, who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush, in a call with reporters. He noted that many of these civil cases take months to complete, so some of the cases completed under Trump started under Obama. In a consent decree reached with Exxon Mobil last October, the EPA boasted that the company would spend $300 million to install pollution controls, but Schaeffer noted that this total includes measures installed as far back as 2013. And it's likely enforcement will decline further for ongoing environmental investigations." any of those cases will drop out of sight if Congress agrees to cut the agency's enforcement budget by 17 percent, as President Trump has proposed," according to the report. "Enforcement matters, especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows." The EPA did not respond to a request for comment.	False
290	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-12-12	The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters, fighting for their lives and freedoms' - his father was also a finalist.	'Minutes after his tweet, Thunberg changed her Twitter profile biography to read: 'A teenager working on her anger management problem.	Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote: 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.	The activist has drawn increasingly large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences over the past year and a half.	The young-activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk för klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year.		Donald Trump Jr. criticizes Time for naming eco-warrior Greta Thunberg as its person of the year President Donald Trump's eldest son Don Jr. has criticized Time magazine for naming Greta Person of the Year 2019 in a mocking tweet. The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters, fighting for their lives and freedoms' - his father was also a finalist. Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote: 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'The 16-year-old Swedish face of climate-activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?' at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year, accusing them of failing the younger generation. An image of her stare at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme. Miss Thunberg was up against four other Time's finalists including anti-government Hong Kong protesters, U.S. house speaker Nancy Pelosi, the anonymous whistleblower who revealed Trump's phone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in July that may lead to his impeachment, and in ironically also Donald Trump. The young-activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk för klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year. The activist has drawn increasingly large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences over the past year and a half. Veteran campaigners and scientists have welcomed her activism, including her combative speeches challenging world leaders to do more to stop global warming. Time editor-in-chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show: 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year, coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'He confirmed she is the magazine's youngest ever choice. Malala Yousafzai was runner up in 2012, losing out to Barack Obama, aged 15.U.S. president last month signed legislation backing the Hong Kong protesters in their fight for democracy - which could be the reason for his son's backing. The protests begun in March when an extradition bill, now suspended, called for those facing trials to be sent to mainland China, which was seen as a threat to the region's autonomy. Thunberg has not responded to the criticism but retweeted Time magazine's cover featuring herself. Today President Donald Trump lashed out at 16-year-old global warming activist Greta Thunberg on Thursday and told her to 'chill,' as he called her Time magazine 'Person of the Year' award 'ridiculous.''Greta must work on her Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta, Chill!' Trump tweetedThe president was responding to Christian filmmaker Roma Downey, who tweeted the Time cover with the word 'Congrats.'Minutes after his tweet, Thunberg changed her Twitter profile biography to read: 'A teenager working on her anger management problem. Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend.'Thunberg was in Madrid on Wednesday, where she addressed negotiators at the U.N.'s COP25 climate talks. There she accused political and business leaders of polishing their images rather than taking aggressive action in the fight against climate change at the UN climate talks. In a speech the teenager also criticized governments for avoiding taking action to cut greenhouse gas emissions and 'not behaving as if we are in an emergency'. Greta said: 'The biggest danger is not inaction; the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening, when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'She said the science showed that, at the current rate of emissions, the world is set to use up the whole 'carbon budget' - the amount of pollution that can be put into the atmosphere and still keep global warming to 1.5C - in eight years.	False
601	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-23	Science is based on observation, Happer said, "[a]nd if you observe what's happening to, for example, the temperature, the temperature is not rising nearly as fast as the alarmist computer models predicted.	Some scientists maintain people like Nye are the ones cherry-picking data.	He told reporters that climate change is "tremendously exaggerated," adding that climate research is important, "but I think it's become sort of a cult movement in the last five years."	In fact, scientists now say "natural variability" is overwhelming their models.	He also suggested the 24-news channel should instead drown out people like Happer with 98 scientists who believe in man-made global warming."		Bill Nye Freaks Out After Scientist Schools Him On Climate Change Comedian Bill Nye accused CNN of doing a "disservice" to its viewers for inviting a well-respected physicist on Earth Day to argue about the legitimacy of man-made global warming. Nye, who is well known for hosting a children's TV show in the 1990s, scolded CNN's "New Day Saturday" panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicist William Happer. He also suggested the 24-news channel should instead drown out people like Happer with 98 scientists who believe in man-made global warming." nd I will say, much as I love the CNN, you're doing a disservice by having one climate change skeptic and not 97 or 98 scientists or engineers concerned about climate change," Nye said after the Princeton University academic suggested that it is a "myth" to believe that carbon dioxide is a pollutant causing widespread ecological destruction." arbon dioxide is a perfectly natural gas, it's just like water vapor, it's something that plants love. They grow better with more carbon dioxide, and you can see the greening of the earth already from the additional carbon dioxide in the atmosphere," he added. He went on to say that Nye's views on science are backward. Science is based on observation, Happer said, "[a]nd if you observe what's happening to, for example, the temperature, the temperature is not rising nearly as fast as the alarmist computer models predicted. It's much, much less — factors of two or three less." Happer, a science adviser to President Donald Trump, made public his skeptical views on climate change in January. He told reporters that climate change is "tremendously exaggerated," adding that climate research is important, "but I think it's become sort of a cult movement in the last five years." Nye, who has a degree in engineering but no professional science background, called Happer's position "completely wrong," and suggested the physicist was "cherry picking a certain model." Some scientists maintain people like Nye are the ones cherry-picking data. Climate models predicted Antarctic sea ice would shrink, and that climate change would boost snowfall in the southern hemisphere, yet neither of those predictions have panned out. In fact, scientists now say "natural variability" is overwhelming their models. Scientists with Columbia University's Earth Institute, for instance, found there's been almost no change in Antarctica's snowfall. They blamed strong "natural variability" for the models' failures. Scientists have also warned that Antarctica has been losing 147 gigatons of ice per year for years, mostly from melting on the northern Antarctic Peninsula. A NASA conducted in 2015, meanwhile, found Antarctica's ice sheet increased in mass from 1992 to 2008, which essentially offset ice melting in the western part of the Antarctic. Nye, for his part, has been one of the most belligerent apostle for the environmental movement. He's even suggested that throwing global warming skeptics in jail could be a potential solution, during an interview with the conservative Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
60	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-01-22	The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	Researchers at MIT and the University of Beijing discovered a direct link between the amount of particulates in the air and happiness.	"People are unhappy, and that means they may make irrational decisions."	Researchers used pollution data from 144 Chinese cities and monitored general happiness of urban dwellers by looking at the mood using 210 million messages from China's largest microblogging platform, Sina Weibo.	But air pollution also has a broader impact on people's social lives and behavior, according Siqi Zheng, the Samuel Tak Lee Associate Professor in MIT's Department of Urban Studies"Pollution also has an emotional cost," said Dr Zheng.	It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels. <sep> For China, pollution can rise into the 700s, which could be having a major impact on happiness. <sep> Air pollution affects happiness... Air pollution is not just bad for health also makes people unhappy, a new study has shown. <sep> They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels, with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100. <sep> 	Air pollution affects happiness... Air pollution is not just bad for health also makes people unhappy, a new study has shown. Researchers at MIT and the University of Beijing discovered a direct link between the amount of particulates in the air and happiness. Research has previously shown that air pollution is damaging to health, cognitive performance, labor productivity, and educational outcomes. But air pollution also has a broader impact on people's social lives and behavior, according Siqi Zheng, the Samuel Tak Lee Associate Professor in MIT's Department of Urban Studies"Pollution also has an emotional cost," said Dr Zheng. "People are unhappy, and that means they may make irrational decisions." Researchers used pollution data from 144 Chinese cities and monitored general happiness of urban dwellers by looking at the mood using 210 million messages from China's largest microblogging platform, Sina Weibo. They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels, with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100. On Monday some parts of London recorded Air Quality Index (AQI) levels of 151, more than 100 points above healthy limits. It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels. For China, pollution can rise into the 700s, which could be having a major impact on happiness. Women were also found to me more sensitive to higher pollution levels than men, as were those on higher incomes. The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	False
691	Daily Kos	left_bias	2017-10-01	It is hard to imagine a more important priority.	"Property," "economy," and "jobs" must serve "Earth First."	We must CONTROL land and resource value to discourage speculation, and eliminate or lessen the wide market swings due to nerves or manipulation.	Demand to be treated like adults.	DEATH BY PIN PRICKS, Water Lilies &amp; Boiling Water There must be a new approach to public policy development that makes "Earth First."	Environmental change is occurring so fast that small decisions made locally avalanche regionally (e.g. <sep> We must impose firm, honest value on land and resources and discourage speculative over-inflation – speculation is not bad per se, but it is one of the easiest activities to exaggerate and corrupt. <sep> Let us ask them. <sep> The Economic Growth discussion is always the same: "highest and best value" (a misnomer if ever there was one – profits trump survival - pun intended). <sep> ozone layer destruction). <sep> 	DEATH BY PIN PRICKS, Water Lilies &amp; Boiling Water There must be a new approach to public policy development that makes "Earth First." "Property," "economy," and "jobs" must serve "Earth First." The planning frame should be at least 100 years, possibly 1,000, NOT 25. Environmental change is occurring so fast that small decisions made locally avalanche regionally (e.g. downstream pollution), or even globally (e.g. ozone layer destruction). The Economic Growth discussion is always the same: "highest and best value" (a misnomer if ever there was one – profits trump survival - pun intended). Fat City is over, although many are still trying to milk it for the last bit of cream; we call these asshats "Vulture Capitalists," they feed off the dead and wounded). We must do more with less, and the rich must share or move out. We don't need more deadhead users and freeloaders. We must develop a mutually supportive community again. The business of government is the people's business; developers step to the rear. Legislators must renounce corporate campaign contributions as contrary to the public good. We must CONTROL land and resource value to discourage speculation, and eliminate or lessen the wide market swings due to nerves or manipulation. We must impose firm, honest value on land and resources and discourage speculative over-inflation – speculation is not bad per se, but it is one of the easiest activities to exaggerate and corrupt. We need a National Land Use Comprehensive Plan. Unlimited Growth is the ethos of a cancer cell, observes David Suzuki, noted biologist. Because one cannot personally conceive of an alternative to growth does not mean that one does not exist. Sustainability is NOT a myth – it is an under-represented, and too-often wrongfully rejected younger child; the one bearing truth to co-dependent addicted parents in deep denial over their multi-generational destruction of the natural environment. Three well-known parables apply:One more stick with the pin?  Deal with it later?  Turn up the heat?Earth's Life Support Systems Failing. The world has failed to slow the accelerating extinction crisis despite years of international effort. It is hard to imagine a more important priority. The biodiversity of life on Earth comprises the ecosystems that provide climate regulation, food,fiber, clean water and air. Like a Dooms Day asteroid, human over-population, pollution, logging, over-exploitation, consumption, land use changes and engineering projects have produced the planet's sixth great extinction of species. Freshwater Species that live in lakes and rivers are vanishing four to six times faster than anywhere else. "There is clear and growing scientific evidence that we are on the verge of a major freshwater biodiversity crisis." We are in a life-threatening situation and must make fundamental and absolute changes without delay. We cannot give "just a bit more" to Trump and his greedy followers. Spoiled children need discipline in order to live wholesome, productive lives. Developers, energy barons, other planet-killers and we, must settle for less and work together to plan and build a healthy sustainable community. We require teamwork to endure what is coming. We have no luxury to indulge selfish, ignorant behaviors. What are our politicians doing that makes any positive difference? Let us ask them. Demand Party Platforms that respond to reality, justice, science and full democracy. Demand to be treated like adults. How to Help, Where to find the ActionGet Corporations out of Government: movetoamend. orgBe Sure to VOTE, take a new registered progressive voter to the polls with you.	False
151	politicususa	left_bias	2019-08-29	Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland.	Democrats seeking their party's nomination in the 2020 U.S. presidential election will participate in a series of town halls on climate next week.	The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized, and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits.	The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions, a major factor in global warming.	"If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal, we will see them in court."		Trump responds to G7 by proposing easing Obama-era methane limits at oil and gas operations WASHINGTON (Reuters) – The Trump administration on Thursday proposed easing Obama-era limits on oil and gas industry emissions of methane, one of the main pollutants scientists link to climate change. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) said easing the 2016 regulation that targeted methane would save energy companies up to $123 million through 2025. The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized, and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits. The proposal "removes unnecessary and duplicative regulatory burdens from the oil and gas industry," EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in a release. The EPA said it will keep rules issued in 2012 that limit emissions known as volatile organic compounds that cause smog and also control some methane emissions. Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane, saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists. BP has said it is already taking steps to limit methane emissions. The move is the Trump administration's latest easing of rules designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions, including many put forth by his predecessor, President Barack Obama. President Donald Trump, who insists he is an environmentalist, has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change. Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland. Democrats seeking their party's nomination in the 2020 U.S. presidential election will participate in a series of town halls on climate next week. In 2016, Obama's EPA issued the first rule limiting methane emissions from new oil and gas fracking operations including transport equipment. Thursday's proposal would repeal those regulations. The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions, a major factor in global warming. The gas has more than 80 times the heat-trapping potential of carbon dioxide in the first 20 years after it escapes into the atmosphere, scientists say. Susan Dio, chairman and president of BP America, supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the "the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide." Environmentalists vowed to sue the administration over the proposal. "We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot-free," said David Doniger, a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. "If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal, we will see them in court."	False
361	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-07-09	There are factors and factors and factors."	And those two things are kind of in conflict.	Whether new opportunities come from digging up coal or harnessing the wind, for job seekers in Wyoming, that detail may be of secondary importance.	This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	Beggar says the Trump administration has shown a "willingness" to cut red tape and move things along more quickly.	"I think you're seeing a change. <sep> Bill Miller says that when people learn about the tax revenues and jobs their transmission line and wind farm will bring to Wyoming, they like that." <sep> So when you go to Texas, or you go to Iowa, you're generally just negotiating with a landowner, whether it's a farmer, whomever," says Beggar. <sep> 	California eyes Wyoming wind power to feed energy appetite... Wyoming's economy is dominated by coal, other fossil fuels, and mineral extraction. The formula here has worked — residents in Wyoming enjoy among the highest per capita GDP in the nation. So naturally, there's been some hostility toward new sources of energy that could threaten that." It's a complicated history with wind," says Jeremiah Rieman, director of economic diversification strategy for Wyoming Gov. Matt Mead (R). "I think you're seeing a change. And certainly we're hearing the message loud and clear, as we go through this economic diversification strategy effort, that wind and renewables need to be a part of that." The push toward wind is playing out in a high-rise office building 100 miles south of Wyoming's capital in Denver. There, TransWest Express is laying out plans to build a 730-mile transmission line across the American West. CEO Bill Miller points to a map and the start of the project — 1,000 wind turbines to be built on a ranch in south-central Wyoming." It starts there and runs a little bit west and then due south into northwest Colorado," says Miller, tracing a line through Utah and then down south of Las Vegas. If all goes according to plan, in three years Miller says the winds of low-population Wyoming will be bringing electricity to where it's needed in California." To my knowledge, this is the largest transmission line development that has occurred in this country in probably 50 years." TransWest Express, which is part of the Anschutz Corporation owned by billionaire Phillip Anschutz, is looking to harness Wyoming's wind because, well, it's super windy. The winds howl in southeast Wyoming because they're rising at the continental divide, then pushing through a gap in the Rocky Mountains." So, if you remember your high school physics class there's this thing called the Venturi effect where you narrow something and that naturally speeds up an air flow. And that's really what we have here," says economist Robert Godby, director of the Center for Energy Economics and Public Policy at the University of Wyoming. Wyoming may have strong winds, but the state ranks just 16th for wind generation. Godby says Wyoming hasn't exactly made things attractive for developers: "We have the only wind generation tax in the country, where we actually tax people who produce electricity with wind." Meanwhile, many other states are creating incentives for wind development, for example by creating renewable portfolio standards that require a state to obtain a certain amount of its energy from sources like wind and solar."I think it's really unfair that Wyoming has this reputation for being hostile to wind or anti-wind," says Jason Beggar, director the Wyoming Infrastructure Authority, a state entity tasked with developing large transmission projects." It's not an anti-wind philosophy, it's just the philosophy of the state — we tax our natural resources to fund government." Beggar says it's tough to build in Wyoming because roughly half of the state is federally owned land." So when you go to Texas, or you go to Iowa, you're generally just negotiating with a landowner, whether it's a farmer, whomever," says Beggar. "Well, in Wyoming, you have to file permits with the federal government and that includes things [like] land use, wildlife mitigation, mineral disturbances. There are factors and factors and factors." Beggar says the Trump administration has shown a "willingness" to cut red tape and move things along more quickly. Meanwhile, conservationists and environmentalists have bristled at the rollback of regulations. There's another challenge facing Wyoming wind: climate change skepticism. Coal burns dirty and produces a lot of greenhouse gases. Many states are pushing renewable energy to move away from that. But in Wyoming, it's complicated." Climate change is a pretty tough subject to talk about with some people because it's a threat no matter how you look at it," says Robert Godby. "It's a threat to world climate, it's also a threat to people's livelihoods [in Wyoming]. And those two things are kind of in conflict. If you're a state like Wyoming where you produce so much fossil fuel, in particular coal, that's threatened by any sort of climate change policy we might put in place to reduce greenhouse gas emissions." Wyoming's governor, Matt Mead, professes skepticism on climate science, but not on the markets, which are moving away from dirtier-burning fuels like coal. That's why he's pushing for a more diversified economy. At the end of the day, the debate in Wyoming is really about jobs. Bill Miller says that when people learn about the tax revenues and jobs their transmission line and wind farm will bring to Wyoming, they like that." These are good, high-paying jobs. And when we finish this project, the permanent jobs are going to be roughly 150 people, well paid, fully benefitted jobs that are really a boon to those communities," says Miller. Wind projects in Wyoming won't come anywhere close to creating enough work to replace the coal industry. Still, the jobs are an important part of the state's broader diversification strategy." Roughly 60 percent of our youth, between the ages of 18 and 24, will not be here 10 years from now, and that's a trend we would like to see disappear," says Rieman. Whether new opportunities come from digging up coal or harnessing the wind, for job seekers in Wyoming, that detail may be of secondary importance. This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	False
820	RT	questionable_source	2017-07-04	Two judges concluded, "the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration, and indeed, that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule."	There will be a separate administration public hearing on the same extension next Monday, according to the Washington Post."	he court's ruling is yet another reminder, now in the context of environmental protection, that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the president's desire to order immediate change," Richard Lazarus, environmental-law professor at Harvard Law School, said in an email as reported by the Post.	Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions.	Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years.		Federal appeals court blocks Trump's attempt to roll back Obama-era methane rules The Environmental Protection Agency's 90-day suspension of new emission standards on oil and gas wells has been struck down by a US appeals court. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has long sought a repeal of the Obama-era rules.A three-judge panel of the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled 2-1 that the EPA would be allowed to reconsider a 2016 ruling that limited methane and smog-forming pollutants emitted by oil and gas wells, but could not delay the date it begins. Two judges concluded, "the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration, and indeed, that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule." READ MORE: Mining in Alaska may return as EPA scraps Obama-era regulationsPruitt, the new head of the EPA, had been looking to extend a suspension on these activities for two years. There will be a separate administration public hearing on the same extension next Monday, according to the Washington Post." he court's ruling is yet another reminder, now in the context of environmental protection, that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the president's desire to order immediate change," Richard Lazarus, environmental-law professor at Harvard Law School, said in an email as reported by the Post. Lazarus continued, "the DC Circuit's ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator, Scott Pruitt, can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration." Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions. At the time, Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation. Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years. This includes a two-year delay on a certain regulations aimed at minimizing chemical accidents.	False
448	politicususa	left_bias	2018-11-03	his is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights," Olson said in court papers.	Circuit Court of Appeals.	his suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process, by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions," Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers.	In the lawsuit, 21 activists, ages 11 to 22, said federal officials violated their rights to due process under the U.S. Constitution by failing to adequately address carbon pollution such as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels.	Francisco noted that the plaintiffs are seeking to hold the U.S. government liable for the cumulative effects of carbon dioxide emissions "from every source in the world over decades."		Supreme Court rejects Trump administration bid to halt climate trial WASHINGTON (Reuters) – The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday rejected for now a bid by the President Donald Trump's administration to block a trial in a lawsuit filed by young activists who have accused the U.S. government of ignoring the perils of climate change. The loss for the administration means it now faces a high-profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene, Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge. Chief Justice John Roberts on Oct. 19 had temporarily put the case on hold while the court as a whole decided how to proceed. The Supreme Court's three-page order noted that the administration may still have grounds to take its arguments to the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Conservative Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch indicated they would have granted the administration's request. There was no indication how Trump's new Supreme Court appointee, conservative Brett Kavanaugh, voted on the issue. In the lawsuit, 21 activists, ages 11 to 22, said federal officials violated their rights to due process under the U.S. Constitution by failing to adequately address carbon pollution such as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels. The lawsuit was filed in 2015 against former President Barack Obama and government agencies in a federal court in Eugene, Oregon. Both the Obama and Trump administrations have failed in efforts to have the lawsuit thrown out. The administration has said a courtroom is not the appropriate venue for a debate on climate change policy." his suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process, by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions," Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers. Francisco noted that the plaintiffs are seeking to hold the U.S. government liable for the cumulative effects of carbon dioxide emissions "from every source in the world over decades." Lawyers for the young activists, led by Julia Olson of a Eugene-based group called Our Children's Trust that brought the lawsuit, have said their clients have suffered "irreparable harm" from the effects of a changing climate." his is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights," Olson said in court papers. On July 30, the high court rejected an earlier application by the Trump administration, calling it premature. Eugene, Oregon-based federal Judge Ann Aiken has repeatedly allowed the case to move forward to trial over the objections of the government. The trial will proceed if neither the high court nor the 9th Circuit intervene. Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	False
194	npr	left_center_bias	2019-11-04	In both cases, the U.S. was instrumental in developing the international strategy."	When the Paris Agreement was being negotiated, the U.S. delegation pushed for more transparency and accountability to make sure the countries that signed on would actually do what they promised."	We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world.	And so for us to be the exception on this issue is holding the world back.	That's one of the ironies of all this," Light says.		U.S. Formally Begins To Leave The Paris Climate Agreement U.S. Formally Begins To Leave The Paris Climate AgreementThe Trump administration has formally notified the United Nations that the U.S. is withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement. The withdrawal will be complete this time next year, after a one-year waiting period has elapsed." We will continue to work with our global partners to enhance resilience to the impacts of climate change and prepare for and respond to natural disasters," Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement Monday. Nearly 200 countries signed on to the agreement in 2015 and made national pledges to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Each country set its own goals, and many wealthy countries, including the U.S., also agreed to help poorer countries pay for the costs associated with climate change. The U.S. is now the only country to pull out of the pact." The United States is not cooperating with the rest of the world on dealing with climate change," says Andrew Light, a former climate official in the State Department who helped develop the Paris Agreement. The agreement was designed to be easier to join than to leave. The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made, in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil. Indeed, in the years since the pact was created, many key international players, including Brazil, China, Japan and India, have experienced economic or political upheaval, but none has withdrawn from the Paris Agreement as a result. President Trump originally announced his intention to withdraw from the deal in the summer of 2017, shortly after he took office. At the time he said, "As of today, the United States will cease all implementation" of the agreement, including federal policies meant to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as U.S. contributions to the international climate fund for poorer nations." These agreements are just only as good as the commitments from each country," Light says. The U.S. had pledged to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions by about a quarter by 2025, compared with 2005 levels. The country is not on track to achieve that goal. In the intervening years, the Trump administration has systematically attempted to roll back federal limits on carbon emissions, including rules about how much pollution can be emitted by power plants, cars and trucks." The reality is, to really deliver on our climate goals, we do need strong federal action," says Rachel Cleetus of the Union of Concerned Scientists. "The unfortunate reality is U.S. carbon emissions actually rose last year." This isn't the first time the U.S. has reneged on an international climate agreement. The U.S. failed to ratify the 1997 Kyoto Protocol despite being instrumental in its creation. In this case, the U.S. became a signatory to the agreement but almost immediately signaled that it didn't intend to pursue its responsibilities. In both cases, the U.S. was instrumental in developing the international strategy." That's one of the ironies of all this," Light says. When the Paris Agreement was being negotiated, the U.S. delegation pushed for more transparency and accountability to make sure the countries that signed on would actually do what they promised." Even though we're the ones who have been pointing to these potential scenarios for problems with other countries, we seem to be the biggest problem," Light says." If we were a tiny country with small emissions, it wouldn't matter so much," he says. "But we're not. We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world. And so for us to be the exception on this issue is holding the world back."A formal withdrawal is reversible, however, if a future administration chooses to rejoin the Paris Agreement and pick up where the U.S. left off with its emissions reduction promises.	False
687	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-23	I see that some of the anthropogenic global warming rhetoric has been picked up by people who are really excited about trying to experiment with those types of systems in the West as a solution to those problems," Wanliss said.	That year, the National Association of Evangelicals proposed adopting a new platform called "For the Health of a Nation."	On one side of that debate is a theological argument that's gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade.	But it appears that Obama and his liberal administration are not really interested in what the Constitution or the scientific community have to say when it interferes with their radical agenda."	This is a demographic Moore, who attends the Gallant First Baptist Church near his home, seems likely to tap.		Roy Moore Is An Outspoken Fundamentalist About Everything But Climate Change He's written poems lamenting legal abortion. He wants to make gay sex illegal and overturn marriage equality. The former judge says he places "God's law" above the Constitution, describes Islam as a "false religion" and has repeatedly defied federal orders to remove religious ornaments from his courtroom. He doesn't believe in evolution, compares preschool to Nazi-style indoctrination and once said the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks were divine punishment for the United States' godlessness. His campaign site calls for energy independence and stakes out the vague position: "Coal mining and oil drilling should be encouraged, subject only to reasonable regulations." In July, he was the only candidate to refuse to answer questions about climate change for a Montgomery Advertiser story. Katie Frost, his spokeswoman, did not respond to multiple requests for comment." ot only do scientists disagree on 'global warming,' but there is little hard evidence that carbon emissions cause changes to the global climate. But it appears that Obama and his liberal administration are not really interested in what the Constitution or the scientific community have to say when it interferes with their radical agenda." In fact, 97 percent of peer-reviewed scientists have found that climate change is a serious threat and is at least exacerbated by humans. And there are serious flaws in the studies published by the 3 percent of scientists whose research suggests otherwise. A research review published last November found errors in the methodologies, assumptions or analyses used by in those studies that, when fixed, put the findings in line with mainstream climate scientists. That consensus is so strong that in 2005 one of the standard-bearers of the evangelical Christian politics in which Moore enshrouds himself planned to take a stance affirming the science. That year, the National Association of Evangelicals proposed adopting a new platform called "For the Health of a Nation." The position paper called for protecting God's creation and embracing the government's help in doing so. But after receiving unanimous support by the board, the 30-million-member organization voted down the proposal, kickstarting a campaign by fossil fuel interests to transform the doubt over global warming into what Splinter, in a lengthy report published in August, succinctly described as "the word of God." White evangelical Christians, more than 80 percent of whom supported Trump in last November's election, are the least likely of any U.S. religious group to believe climate change is occurring, according to 2015 data from the Pew Research Center. Just 28 percent of white evangelicals believe the planet is warming primarily due to human activity, compared with 56 percent of black Protestants and 41 percent of white mainline Protestants who say the opposite. Roughly 37 percent of white evangelicals don't believe the climate is changing at all. This is a demographic Moore, who attends the Gallant First Baptist Church near his home, seems likely to tap. Alabama has the highest percentage of Baptists after Tennessee, with 31 percent of residents in the state, according to Pew's 2014 Religious Landscape study. In December, The Baptist Press, the official media arm of the Southern Baptist Convention, published an open letter of support for Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt's nomination amid fierce backlash over the former Oklahoma attorney general's rejection of the scientific consensus on climate change. On one side of that debate is a theological argument that's gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade. According to that interpretation, God provided fossil fuels for humans to exploit, and Christian environmentalists who believed in shifting to renewable energy were deceived by the "false doctrine" of the so-called "Green Dragon," a demonic force that fooled people into putting the needs of the planet ahead of those of the poor." s a Christian, I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible," James Wanliss, an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author of The Green Dragon: Is Global Warming a Religion?, told HuffPost. "If you're grindingly poor, you're just going to care about your next meal, and too bad if trees get in your way." I see that some of the anthropogenic global warming rhetoric has been picked up by people who are really excited about trying to experiment with those types of systems in the West as a solution to those problems," Wanliss said. "As a Christian, that's a problem to me, because, well, aside from the philosophy behind those systems, it's just, again, empirically been disastrous." Roy Moore, he's part of that culture," Michael Hansen, executive director of the Birmingham-based environmental group Gasp and a former candidate in the Democratic primary for Senate, told HuffPost. "Something that I hear quite a bit from the right wing in Alabama is that God gave us fossil fuels for a reason. I wouldn't be surprised if Roy Moore said that at some point during his campaign." Alabama emerged in June from more than a year of "the worst drought in memory," affecting 98 percent of the state. The state braced twice in the past month for damage from the devastating series of hurricanes that struck neighboring states, but it was spared the destruction after the winds weakened. Yet nearly 37 percent of Alabamians don't believe global warming is happening, 7 percentage points below the national average, according to survey data from the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication.	False
688	CNN	left_bias	2017-09-30	"Regardless of why you're doing it, what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you.	We could tie this to climate change, or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money."	While Sullivan acknowledged that there's been an intentional shift of language at the department, especially as the topic of climate change continues to be discussed -- or avoided -- hand-in-hand with storm preparedness, he argues that at the end of the day, the administration has the same goals for rebuilding communities.	The aim of the competition was to award grants to communities hit by natural disasters to fund rebuilding them to better weather future events worsened by climate change.	"The last administration made that very direct connection between the use of that word and words like sustainability with climate change and, while there may be a reluctance to do that now, I don't think that means folks are any less committed to making sure the next storm is less costly," Sullivan said.	Instead, they both said the focus should be on resiliency." <sep> "The idea is when dollars are spent to rebuild, you don't just want to rebuild the same old way, you want to rebuild in a way that is smarter and makes it less likely that they will be effected the same way in the future storms -- that's resiliency," former HUD Secretary Julian Castro, who awarded the grant at the time, told CNN. <sep> 	Trump administration swaps 'climate change' for 'resilience' The word choices by administration officials -- and the extent to which they're going to avoid referencing global warming altogether -- are notable in the aftermath of recent severe hurricanes and in the face of questions about what could have caused them. In the wake of Hurricane Irma, both Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of hurricanes. Instead, they both said the focus should be on resiliency." Regardless of what causes disasters, it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences," Long told CNN. "The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry, which we do not have, and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection." Duke echoed Long's thoughts on the need for "resilience." "We live in a changing world, and as the FEMA administrator said, we always have to look at not just the response, but the preparedness and the resilience," Duke said. "And I think it's important that as we come together as a country, we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response, that we are adapting properly." Trump dismisses climate change question by contradicting himself on hurricanes Other departments are also adopting the language replacement, in some cases making unannounced changes and replacements to their websites and names of programs. In February, shortly after President Donald Trump took office, the​ ​Department​ of​ ​Transportation and Federal​ ​Highway​ ​Administration​ ​changed language​ ​across​ its website​ ​relating​ ​to​ ​the environmental​ ​effects​ ​of transportation. The changes swapped words like "adaptation" with resilience and also renamed the "Sustainable Transport and Climate Change Team" to "The Sustainable Transportation and Resilience Team," according to a Environmental​ ​Data​ ​and​ ​Governance​ ​Initiative Website​ ​Tracking​ ​ report That same month, the Environmental Protection Agency removed all mention of climate change from its water utilities programs. The "Climate Ready Water Utilities" program was renamed to "Creating Resilient Water Utilities." Other references to climate change were also scrubbed from the website, Inside Climate News first reported. Over at the USDA, an internal memo obtained by CNN that was shared in the first days of the administration to staffers gave specific guidance to ditch the term "climate change adaptation" and instead opt for "resilience to weather extremes." The terms resilience and resiliency rose to popularity in the US government during former President Barack Obama's administration, used specifically to denote preparing something to ward off the future effects of climate change. For example, following Superstorm Sandy, the Department of Housing and Urban Development established a first-of-its-kind competition called the National Disaster Resilience Competition. The aim of the competition was to award grants to communities hit by natural disasters to fund rebuilding them to better weather future events worsened by climate change. "The idea is when dollars are spent to rebuild, you don't just want to rebuild the same old way, you want to rebuild in a way that is smarter and makes it less likely that they will be effected the same way in the future storms -- that's resiliency," former HUD Secretary Julian Castro, who awarded the grant at the time, told CNN. "There's no question that climate change is at least a contributing factor to some of the intensity of these natural disasters. ... The administration ought to take that into consideration and not try to decouple those two," Castro said. "The verbal judo they are trying to do doesn't serve local communities at all." But administration officials counter that resiliency can have a dual meaning -- even one that means essentially the same thing, but without the overt climate change undertones. "Resilience came into our nomenclature in our last administration but that doesn't mean that it's a verboten word any longer," said Brian Sullivan, a HUD spokesman. "The last administration made that very direct connection between the use of that word and words like sustainability with climate change and, while there may be a reluctance to do that now, I don't think that means folks are any less committed to making sure the next storm is less costly," Sullivan said. While Sullivan acknowledged that there's been an intentional shift of language at the department, especially as the topic of climate change continues to be discussed -- or avoided -- hand-in-hand with storm preparedness, he argues that at the end of the day, the administration has the same goals for rebuilding communities. "I don't know if there's an operating definition of what resilience means," he said. "Regardless of why you're doing it, what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you. Whether you believe in climate change or you don't, you are embarking on some future activity. We could tie this to climate change, or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money."	False
391	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-11-26	org.	That 2017 study, published in the journal Science, was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation, which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer, respectively.	Global Change Research Program (USGCRP), which is responsible for producing the NCA.	It's a top-line finding of a major government climate report, but it's based on a study funded by groups affiliated with two major Democratic donors.	The NCA was put together with input from 13 federal agencies and outside scientists.		A Top-Line Claim In The Newest US Climate Report Relies On Research Tied To Major Democratic Donors It's been repeated throughout the media: Future global warming could wipe-out one-tenth of the U.S. economy by 2100. It's a top-line finding of a major government climate report, but it's based on a study funded by groups affiliated with two major Democratic donors. The oft-repeated claim also stemmed from a global warming projection that's come under increased scrutiny from experts, including one who called it "outlandish." The federal government released the second volume of the National Climate Assessment (NCA) Friday. The federal report issued dire warnings, including from "ice sheet disintegration on accelerated sea level rise, leading to widespread effects on coastal development lasting thousands of years." The report also claims that "global greenhouse gas emissions is expected to cause substantial net damage to the U.S. economy throughout this century," including a 10 percent hit to gross domestic product (GDP) in one extreme scenario. (RELATED: Trump Touts 'Oil Prices Getting Lower' As Millions Hit The Road For Thanksgiving)However, NCA's dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes from a 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors. The study was also funded by other organizations, including the National Science Foundation, the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund. That 2017 study, published in the journal Science, was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation, which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer, respectively. University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke, Jr. pointed out problems with the study on Twitter Saturday, including the fact it was funded by groups connected with Bloomberg and Steyer. Bloomberg and Steyer were the biggest donors to Democratic-aligned political action groups in the 2016 election cycle, according to the Center for Responsive Politics (CRP). Bloomberg, who founded Bloomberg Philanthropies, handed nearly $60 million to liberal SuperPACs to help put Democratic candidates in office and defeat Republicans in the 2018 election cycle, according to the CRP. Steyer, who co-founded Next Generation, gave roughly $58.7 million to liberal SuperPACs, according to CRP. Bloomberg and Steyer back the Paris climate accord and Obama-era policies to phase out fossil fuels. The Bloomberg-Steyer-funded study found future temperature rise could cost "roughly 1.2% of gross domestic product per [additional one degree Celsius increase] on average." At the most extreme high-end, that could add up to 10 percent of GDP by 2100. Pielke called the use of such an extreme scenario "embarrassing" because it's based on a future that's 15 degrees Fahrenheit warmer — in other words, twice what the United Nations' most extreme scenario projects. But even the United Nations' worst-case scenario, called RCP8.5, is being called into question by experts. A study published in 2017 found RCP8.5 was "exceptionally unlikely" because it suffered from "systematic errors in fossil production outlooks." Imagine if research funded by Exxon was sole basis for claims. Given weaknesses of the work [it's] just [foolish] to lean on it so much," Pielke tweeted. Major media outlets' however, did no such examination of the NCA's reliance on such an "outlandish" claim, as Pielke called it. CNN reported "the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars — or, in the worst-case scenario, more than 10% of its GDP" by 2100. The news outlets' headline warned future warming could also "kill thousands." All told, the report says, climate change could slash up to a tenth of gross domestic product by 2100, more than double the losses of the Great Recession a decade ago," The New York Times reported of the NCA. Andrew Light, a distinguished senior fellow at the World Resources Institute and reviewer of the chapter highlighting the Bloomberg-Steyer-funded study did not respond to The Daily Caller News Foundation's request for comment. Instead, Light forwarded TheDCNF's request to the U.S. Global Change Research Program (USGCRP), which is responsible for producing the NCA. USGCRP has yet to respond to TheDCNF's request. The NCA was put together with input from 13 federal agencies and outside scientists. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
472	cnn	left_bias	2018-11-23	The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced, and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities," Easterling said.	In Houston, communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause.	Reactions to the new report have been strong across the scientific community."	We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered, but believed and acted upon."	Along the US coasts, public infrastructure and $1 trillion in national wealth held in real estate are threatened by rising sea levels, flooding and storm surges.		Climate change brings dire consequences to the US, federal report concludes (CNN) A new US government report delivers a dire warning about climate change and its devastating impacts, saying the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars -- or, in the worst-case scenario, more than 10% of its GDP -- by the end of the century. The federally mandated study was supposed to come out in December but was released by the Trump administration on Friday, at a time when many Americans are on a long holiday weekend, distracted by family and shopping." The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced, and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities," Easterling said. Coming from the US Global Change Research Program , a team of 13 federal agencies, the Fourth National Climate Assessment was put together with the help of 1,000 people, including 300 leading scientists, roughly half from outside the government. Without significant reductions in greenhouse emissions, the annual average global temperature could increase 9 degrees Fahrenheit (5 Celsius) or more by the end of this century, compared with preindustrial temperatures, the report says. The costs of climate change could reach hundreds of billions of dollars annually, according to the report. The Southeast alone will probably lose over a half a billion labor hours by 2100 due to extreme heat. Farmers will face extremely tough times. The quality and quantity of their crops will decline across the country due to higher temperatures, drought and flooding. In parts of the Midwest, farms will be able to produce less than 75% of the corn they produce today, and the southern part of the region could lose more than 25% of its soybean yield. Heat stress could cause average dairy production to fall between 0.60% and 1.35% over the next 12 years -- having already cost the industry $1.2 billion from heat stress in 2010. Wildfire seasons -- already longer and more destructive than before -- could burn up to six times more forest area annually by 2050 in parts of the United States. Burned areas in Southwestern California alone could double by 2050. Dependable and safe water for the Hawaii, the Caribbean and others are threatened by these rising temperatures. Along the US coasts, public infrastructure and $1 trillion in national wealth held in real estate are threatened by rising sea levels, flooding and storm surges. Energy systems will be taxed, meaning more blackouts and power failures, and the potential loss in some sectors could reach hundreds of billions of dollars per year by the end of the century, the report said. The number of days over 100 degrees Fahrenheit will multiply; Chicago, where these days are rare, could start to resemble Phoenix or Las Vegas, with up to two months worth of these scorching-hot days. Sea levels have already gone up 7 to 8 inches since 1900. Almost half that rise has been since 1993, a rate of rise greater than during any century in the past 2,800 years. Some countries are already seeing land underwater. By midcentury, it's likely that the Arctic will lose all sea ice in late summer, and that could lead to more permafrost thaw, according to the report. As the permafrost thaws, more carbon dioxide and methane would be released, amplifying human-induced warming, "possibly significantly." What can be doneThe report was created to inform policy-makers and makes no specific recommendations on how to remedy the problem. However, it suggests that if the United States immediately reduced its fossil fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions, it could save thousands of lives and generate billions of dollars in benefits for the country. Reactions to the new report have been strong across the scientific community." In Houston, communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause. We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered, but believed and acted upon." Scientists who have been raising the alarm about the negative consequences of climate change for years welcomed the findings.	False
642	RedState	right_bias	2017-10-09	)The purpose of this rule was breathtaking.	Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP-industry lawsuit against it.	Did you ever stop to wonder what they know that the current belly-achers don't?	In a fact sheet released accompanying the speech, Trump's campaign said he would scale back the latest regulations on ozone pollution and eliminate the EPA's Renewable Identification Number program, which is part of the Renewable Fuel Standard program.	The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years.		Scott Pruitt Gets Ready to Pull the Plug on Obama's Job-Killing Clean Power Plan Back in October 2015, Barack Obama's EPA finalized a 460-page rule titled "Carbon Pollution Emission Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources: Electric Utility Generating Units," aka the Clean Power Plan. This was a part of Obama's "pen and phone" way of ruling the country. (As an aside, did you ever see anyone on the left bitch about Obama using the power of the presidency to make policy and weigh in on political and cultural issues the way some on the right bitch about Trump doing it? Did you ever stop to wonder what they know that the current belly-achers don't?)The purpose of this rule was breathtaking. Using the anthropogenic global warming scaremongering and specious public health predictions, the Clean Power Plan essentially put the US coal industry out of business. Since that time the rule has been mired in court challenges and it produced the first instance in history where the Supreme Court presumed a rule was unreasonable before a lower court ruled on the issue:"The Supreme Court dealt a blow to President Obama's signature climate change initiative Tuesday by halting the administration's effort to reduce pollution from coal-fired power plants while a legal battle rages on. The move by the court's five conservative members was a shock to environmentalists, who had hoped the justices would deny — as a federal appeals court did last month — a petition filed by 29 mostly Republican-led states and industry leaders. Now the Environmental Protection Agency must halt enforcement of the so-called "Clean Power Plan" until the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP-industry lawsuit against it. Oral arguments are set for early June. Even if the plan is upheld at the lower court, it could not be implemented until the Supreme Court has had the final word. That likely would push the battle into 2017 or beyond. In September 2016, then-candidate Donald Trump gave an economic policy speech in which he specifically targeted the Clean Power Plan:Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump said he would repeal four key Environmental Protection Agency regulations as president, leading one environmental group to call his plans a "dumpster fire." During an economic policy speech in New York, Trump said he would eliminate the Clean Power Plan and the Waters of the United States rule. In a fact sheet released accompanying the speech, Trump's campaign said he would scale back the latest regulations on ozone pollution and eliminate the EPA's Renewable Identification Number program, which is part of the Renewable Fuel Standard program. Trump said the regulations harm U.S. businesses and getting rid of them would help kick-start the economy. "This Obama-Clinton directive will shut down most, if not all, coal-powered electricity plans in America," Trump said of the Clean Power Plan. " They're shutting down all over the country. Remember what Hillary Clinton said? She wants to shut down the miners, just like she wants to shut down the steel mills and steel workers." In late March, President Trump signed an executive order directing the EPA to review the Clean Power Plan:Now it is reported that tomorrow the EPA will being the process of withdrawing the Clean Power Plan. What the EPA is doing is proposing a rule to rescind the existing rule and then it will undertake another administrative rule making process to ask for public input on what a new rule should contain, and finally a new rule will be drafted. I'm sure Scott Pruitt would prefer to scrap this whole thing, unfortunately, the US Supreme Court 2007 decision, Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency, says that EPA regulation of carbon dioxide is actually required by the Clean Air Act and so non-regulation is legally off the table unless Congress acts (that was a joke). The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years. In the meantime, hopefully Congress will act (again that was a joke) to limit the reach of the Clean Air Act and the ability of activists to use that law to wreak havoc on our economy and communities.	False
797	NPR	left_center_bias	2017-05-26	Still to be determined: whether it was persuasive, or consequential.	(Climate change and its impacts have been observed by scientists working in multiple fields, and the overwhelming scientific consensus is that human activity is the primary cause.	And up for debate, the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	Any decision on climate change would ultimately be based on what's best for the United States, Cohn said.	"His views are evolving, which is exactly as they should be."		In Europe, World Leaders Try To Change Trump's Mind On Climate Change In Europe, World Leaders Try To Change Trump's Mind On Climate ChangeIt was eight against one, according to German Chancellor Angela Merkel. On one side, leaders of Canada, Japan, France, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom, plus two EU representatives. On the other side, President Trump. And up for debate, the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Merkel said that everyone at the table at the G-7 summit in Taormina, Italy, was urging Trump to stick with the pact, according to Reuters. After that conversation, Trump economic adviser Gary Cohn said the president's views are "evolving" and that he feels "much, much more knowledgeable" after the conversation with world leaders." He came here to learn. He came here to get smarter," Cohn said. "His views are evolving, which is exactly as they should be." Any decision on climate change would ultimately be based on what's best for the United States, Cohn said. The Paris accord, created in 2015 after lengthy negotiations, calls on 196 nations to ratchet back greenhouse gas emissions. The goal is to keep the rise in global temperatures no higher than 2 degrees Celsius, as compared with pre-industrial levels. (As NPR reported at the time, the global average temperature has already increased about 1 degree Celsius.)The deal includes voluntary pledges to reduce emissions. It also calls for developed countries to provide billions of dollars to help the developing world switch from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources. The accord was historic in its scope and its ambition, even though its reliance on voluntary pledges made it less robust than some advocates had hoped. On the campaign trail, Trump said he would "cancel" the Paris deal. He has previously suggested that climate change is a hoax and appointed as the head of the EPA a man who said he does not believe human activity is a primary contributor to global warming. (Climate change and its impacts have been observed by scientists working in multiple fields, and the overwhelming scientific consensus is that human activity is the primary cause.)But since taking office, Trump has not moved to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris agreement. He has rolled back a number of Obama-era climate change measures, which will hamper U.S. efforts to fulfill its Paris pledges. But he hasn't retracted the pledges themselves. Just this week, members of his administration indicated that the White House had not yet decided what to do on the issue. Before the conversation between Trump and the other G-7 leaders, Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni noted that all the other countries had confirmed "total agreement" to the pact, while the U.S. commitment was an "open question." We are sure that after an internal reflection, the United States will also want to commit to it," Gentiloni said, according to the Associated Press. But Gentolini and other world leaders weren't just waiting for internal reflection. They added some external pressure, too. French President Emmanuel Macron reportedly discussed climate change with Trump at length on Thursday at a meeting in Brussels. Leaders of the Roman Catholic Church broached the topic when Trump visited the Vatican. And then there was the chat between the G-7 leaders. Merkel called the conversation "controversial." Cohn said it was "robust." Still to be determined: whether it was persuasive, or consequential.	False
164	yahoonews	left_center_bias	2019-12-24	Spewing.	Right?	It's our air, their air, everything — right?	So they make these things and then they put them up."	e'll have an economy based on wind.		Trump huffs and puffs about windmills, but wind power keeps growing Despite longstanding opposition to renewable energy on the part of President Trump, who gave a rambling, nearly incoherent disquisition on windmills last weekend, the wind power industry in the United States continued to grow in 2019. The country set records for newly installed capacity of wind power in both the second and third quarters of 2019, according to a report by the American Wind Energy Association, reaching a total of 100 gigawatts —roughly on a par with nuclear plants, although in terms of actual power generated (as distinguished from theoretical capacity), wind is still a fraction of nuclear and fossil fuels." ind now supplies clean and efficient power to the equivalent of 32 million American homes, sustains 500 U.S. factories, and delivers more than $1 billion a year in new revenue to rural communities and states," Tom Kernan, CEO of AWEA, said in a statement. At a time when global carbon emissions that cause climate change continue to rise, wind power now accounts for 6.5 percent of the energy America produces. Once the wind turbines are constructed, the energy they produce is carbon neutral and renewable indefinitely. Yet Trump, who believes that climate change is a "hoax," is no fan of windmills, as he once again made clear last weekend in a speech in Florida." e'll have an economy based on wind. I never understood wind. You know, I know windmills very much. I've studied it better than anybody. I know it's very expensive. They're made in China and Germany mostly — very few made here, almost none. But they're manufactured tremendous — if you're into this — tremendous fumes," Trump asserted. "Gases are spewing into the atmosphere. You know we have a world, right? So the world is tiny compared to the universe. So tremendous, tremendous amount of fumes and everything. You talk about the carbon footprint — fumes are spewing into the air. Right? Spewing. Whether it's in China, Germany, it's going into the air. It's our air, their air, everything — right? So they make these things and then they put them up." Trump, who filed an unsuccessful lawsuit against the government of Scotland to block the construction of offshore wind turbines he said would mar the views from one of his golf resorts, also complained in his Florida speech that wind turbines killed birds." o under a windmill someday, you'll see more birds than you've ever seen ever in your life," Trump said. While it is true that an estimated 234,000 birds die each year in collisions with wind turbines, according to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, many more are killed by flying into buildings or by domestic cats. In 2018, the Trump administration eliminated criminal penalties for unintentional migratory bird deaths resulting from industrial or agricultural activity, the New York Times reported. Despite the rapid growth in the construction of wind power facilities across the U.S., the Interior Department announced in August that it was withholding approval for a wind project off the coast of Massachusetts similar to the one Trump opposed in Scotland. Interior Department spokesman Nicholas Goodwin said in a statement that the government needed to make sure the project was "safe and environmentally responsible." In April, Trump, without citing any evidence, told a Republican audience that wind turbines were dangerous to human health." hey say the noise causes cancer," Trump said. That claim, like all the others Trump has made about wind power, was quickly refuted." he American Cancer Society is unaware of any credible evidence linking the noise from windmills to cancer," a spokesman for the group told the Times in an email.• None Behind Pelosi's risky strategy to withhold impeachment from Senate• None What happens to the articles of impeachment now?• None Trump impeachment FAQ: What you need to know	False
527	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-10-10	The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together."	All measures combined can result in keeping healthy both planet and people."	We looked at improving agricultural yields in particular of more health sensitive crops like fruit, vegetables and legumes," said Dr Springmann."	This means eating mainly plant-based foods, and is one of three key steps towards a sustainable future for all in 2050, they say.	This involves boosting yields from existing cropland, improving water management and restricting and recycling fertiliser use."		'Flexitarian' diets key to feeding people in a warming world If the world wants to limit climate change, water scarcity and pollution, then we all need to embrace "flexitarian" diets, say scientists. This means eating mainly plant-based foods, and is one of three key steps towards a sustainable future for all in 2050, they say. Food waste will need to be halved and farming practices will also have to improve, according to the study. Without action, the impacts of the food system could increase by up to 90%. Fast on the heels of the landmark report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) comes this new study on how food production and consumption impact major threats to the planet. The authors say that the food system has a number of significant environmental impacts including being a major driver of climate change, depleting freshwater and pollution through excessive use of nitrogen and phosphorous. The study says that thanks to the population and income growth expected between 2010 and 2050, these impacts could grow between 50-90%. This could push our world beyond its planetary boundaries, which the authors say represent a "safe operating space for humanity on a stable Earth system". However the study finds that no single solution will avert the dangers, so a combined approach is needed. So when it comes to climate change, the authors looked at what they called a "flexitarian diet"." We can eat a range of healthy diets but what they all have in common, according to the latest scientific evidence, is that they are all relatively plant based," said lead author Dr Marco Springmann from the University of Oxford." You can go from a diet that has small amounts of animal products, some might call it a Mediterranean based diet, we call it a flexitarian diet, over to a pescatarian, vegetarian or vegan diet - we tried to stay with the most conservative one of these which in our view is the flexitarian one, but even this has only one serving of red meat per week." If the world moved to this type of diet, the study found that greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture would be reduced by more than half. But as well as altering diets, the research says that farming practices need to change significantly. This involves boosting yields from existing cropland, improving water management and restricting and recycling fertiliser use." We looked at improving agricultural yields in particular of more health sensitive crops like fruit, vegetables and legumes," said Dr Springmann." In the past there has been lots of invest in the stable grains like maize and corn, but now we really need to move it to the crops we need more of. We also looked at increasing the efficiency of water use, and we looked at better monitoring and recycling of fertiliser - lots of it is lost and it runs off into rivers and causes dead zones in the oceans." In addition, the study found that halving the amount of food lost to waste would reduce the environmental impacts of agriculture by 16%." Tackling food loss and waste will require measures across the entire food chain, from storage, and transport, over food packaging and labelling to changes in legislation and business behaviour that promote zero-waste supply chains," said Fabrice de Clerck, director of science at EAT who funded the study. The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together." Feeding a world population of 10 billion people is possible - yet only if we change the way we eat, and the way we produce food," said Johan Rockström, director designate of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, who is one of the authors of the study." All measures combined can result in keeping healthy both planet and people." The study has been published in the journal Nature.	False
794	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-06-02	I think it's a little bit more nuanced than stay in or not."	here are a lot of different issues related to the international climate agenda that may not necessarily fall into the Paris bucket per se."	The official echoed: "Can we stay on topic please?"	I think that's going to be determined by the president as we move forward."	The official insisted his own views were irrelevant, while a White House staff member interjected: "Can we stay on topic please?"		'Yes or no?' White House won't say if Trump is a climate change denier The White House has declined to say whether Donald Trump believes human activity contributes to climate change as the president pulled America out of the Paris agreement. Administration officials were also unable to offer revised US carbon emission targets or say what changes to the global landmark accord would persuade Trump to re-enter it. But they did offer assurance that America will abide by the lengthy exit process outlined in the deal, waiting three-and-a-half years to formally withdraw. Trump announced on Thursday the US would join Nicaragua and Syria as the only countries to shun the Paris agreement, characterising it as "a reassertion of America's sovereignty" and saying he was "elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris". There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders, former president Barack Obama and Trump's defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton, who branded it "a historic mistake". Shortly after Trump spoke in the Rose Garden at the White House to applause from supporters, two senior administration officials briefed reporters in the west wing. The officials, who did not wish to be named, did nothing to alter perceptions of the US president as a climate change denier when asked whether he believed human activity was a contributory factor. One official replied: "So I think the fact that the president in his speech today said he wants to come back and renegotiate a better deal for the United States and for the world I think speaks for itself." The journalist shot back: "So is that a yes? It's a yes or no question." The official said: "Again, I think that speaks for itself." The journalist pressed: "It doesn't speak for itself, so is that a yes? Does he believe human activity contributes to climate change?"The official said: "I have not talked to the president about his personal views on whether – I was not with the president on his trip. I did not talk to the president about his personal views on what is contributing to climate change." The official insisted his own views were irrelevant, while a White House staff member interjected: "Can we stay on topic please?" The official echoed: "Can we stay on topic please?" – implying that Trump's views on the causes of climate change were irrelevant to the Paris decision. On 27 March the same official proved evasive on Trump's views when questioned by the Guardian. This week Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, also said he had not asked the president's opinion on the matter. Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, has said he "would not agree" that carbon from human activity is the primary cause of global warming while, in 2014, Trump referred to it as a "hoax". On Thursday, in a speech that kept a campaign pledge and echoed the fiery "America first" nationalism of his inaugural address, Trump said: "As of today, the United States will cease all implementation of the non-binding Paris accord." During Obama's tenure, the US had agreed under the accord to reduce emissions by more than a quarter below 2005 levels by 2025. The administration officials declined to specify new targets or give even a rough estimate of America's intended nationally determined contribution to limiting greenhouse gas emissions. But they pointed to America's existing record. "I think leading the world is pretty good, right?" one said. "I think that speaks for itself." The Paris accord came into effect on 4 November 2016. It makes provision for parties to withdraw, but notice can be given only three years after it kicks in. Withdrawal would take effect a year after that, meaning November 2020, a date that coincides with the next US presidential election – raising the prospect that the issue remains alive during the campaign." irst of all, the whole withdrawal process will be consistent with the Paris agreement," an official said. "So the Paris agreement has to be in force for three years before you can actually submit a notice formally for withdrawal, which takes at least a year." uring this period, the United States will not acknowledge or do anything to implement the current pledge put down by President Obama. Now what's the negotiating process? I think that's going to be determined by the president as we move forward." The leaders of France, Germany and Italy joined to express regret at Trump's decision and insisted the agreement "cannot be renegotiated". One of the administration officials responded: "If you look at the Europeans, if you look at other major economies or allies or partners, they have a strong interest in finding common ground with the United States and again, we don't want to get out ahead of ourselves here on what may be discussed or not." here are a lot of different issues related to the international climate agenda that may not necessarily fall into the Paris bucket per se." He added: "The president is very sincere when he says he wants a better deal, he wants to negotiate, potentially bringing us back in Paris depending on what that looks like ... I think it's a little bit more nuanced than stay in or not." Officials at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) challenged a set of talking points issued to support Trump's decision as misleading. A statement from MIT said: "The relevant MIT researchers believe that the Paris agreement is an unprecedented and vital effort by nearly 200 countries to respond to the urgent threat of global climate change."	False
619	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-09-19	Instead of focusing on the apprehension and divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters, it's more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together to help one another.	In a hyper-political environment, pro-climate change and anti-climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand: the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters, and the implementation of standardized response to these crises.	While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies, it's more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric, which only serves to "encourage" people through anxiety and panic.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season (as well as the most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria, which was said to "cripple" Dominica with "widespread devastation" en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States), it's important to maintain levelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speaking truth amidst apprehension.	He added that the study is based on concrete "mainstream science," and cited reports from The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and NOAA to corroborate his analysis.		New analysis disputes the theory that climate change was responsible for Harvey and Irma In a new study, economist and environmental analyst Nicholas Loris explained that climate change simply isn't responsible for Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Bottom line, Loris's analysis stated that "man-made warming" was not responsible for Harvey and Irma." an-made warming did not cause Harvey and Irma," Loris wrote. "As carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions have increased, there have been no trends in global tropical cycle landfalls." Loris said that the "average number of hurricanes per decade reaching landfall in the U.S. has fallen over the past 160 years." He added that the study is based on concrete "mainstream science," and cited reports from The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and NOAA to corroborate his analysis. Loris also disputed assertions that global warming "supercharged" these hurricanes, which made them deadlier, citing work by University of Washington climatologist Cliff Mass and former director of the National Hurricane Center Bill Read, both of whom rejected this claim after conducting research into the phenomenon. With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season (as well as the most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria, which was said to "cripple" Dominica with "widespread devastation" en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States), it's important to maintain levelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speaking truth amidst apprehension. In a hyper-political environment, pro-climate change and anti-climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand: the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters, and the implementation of standardized response to these crises. While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies, it's more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric, which only serves to "encourage" people through anxiety and panic. Instead of focusing on the apprehension and divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters, it's more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together to help one another.	False
64	therightscoop	right_bias	2019-12-03	Thunberg, 16, has been on a tour of North America to raise awareness for climate change.	No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	Thunberg was set to speak at the conference but needed to leave the U.S. sooner than expected.I mean, you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you can't even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards?	From the Hill:Greta Thunberg's plan for carbon-free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up.	Thunberg and her father, who has traveled North America throughout his daughter's activist tour, could have flown aboard the same flight and burned just as much CO2.		Greta Thunberg FAILS her 'zero emissions' promise after climate summit moves to Spain Greta Thunberg tried really hard to keep her "zero emissions" promise, but it has collapsed like all hypocritical left-wing plans because it was just too difficult. From the Hill:Greta Thunberg's plan for carbon-free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up. Thunberg, 16, has been on a tour of North America to raise awareness for climate change. As part of her pledge to cut back carbon dioxide emissions to save the planet, Thunberg vowed not to travel by air to limit her carbon footprint while she tours. The plan for "zero emissions" travel was subverted when Thunberg's yacht captain, Nikki Henderson, 26, flew to the United States from England, burning roughly two or three tons of carbon CO2 in the process. Thunberg and her father, who has traveled North America throughout his daughter's activist tour, could have flown aboard the same flight and burned just as much CO2. Ironically, she failed because of left-wing communist protesters in Chile:Henderson was forced to make the flight last second because protests in Chile caused the U.N.'s Cop25 climate summit to be moved to Madrid, Spain. Thunberg was set to speak at the conference but needed to leave the U.S. sooner than expected.I mean, you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you can't even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards? No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral. And we all kinda see what is happening here – if they can't do it now, then why would we believe that they would be carbon free after they force all of us to live in backwards slums?	True
406	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-10-18	Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule, this effort is all about helping industry.	The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans, who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism.	The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill, including the division of the Minerals Management Service, the scandal-plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations, into three new agencies.	Rick Scott ― a staunch Trump supporter ― he was removing the state's coastal waters from consideration.	She said it references the Well Control Rule and the Production Safety Systems Rule, two regulations that were under development back in early 2015 and are now on Trump's chopping block.		Trump Team Cited Obama-Era Safety Rules In Offshore Drilling Plan, Then Gutted Them The Trump administration pointed to key offshore drilling safety regulations adopted in the wake of the catastrophic 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in its sweeping proposal to open up nearly all U.S. waters to oil and gas development, only to turn around in the months since and work to roll back those very safeguards. The controversial drilling plan, released in January as part of President Donald Trump's "energy dominance" agenda, would make available for oil and gas leasing roughly 90 percent of the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf, including large swaths of the Arctic, Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. The Interior Department, led by Secretary Ryan Zinke, noted in the lengthy proposal that while offshore oil and gas production "will never be totally risk-free," the agency "has made, and is continuing to make, substantial reforms to improve the safety and reduce the possible adverse environmental impacts" of those activities. Elizabeth Johnson Klein, the Interior Department's associate deputy secretary under Obama, said the language first appeared in a draft of the current program, released in January 2015. She said it references the Well Control Rule and the Production Safety Systems Rule, two regulations that were under development back in early 2015 and are now on Trump's chopping block. The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill, including the division of the Minerals Management Service, the scandal-plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations, into three new agencies. Days before the Trump administration unveiled its plans for a massive expansion of offshore drilling, it moved to weaken the Production Safety Systems Rule, a set of regulations pertaining to maintenance of offshore platforms. At the time, the Interior Department's Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement ― one of the agencies born out of the reorganization of the Minerals Management Service ― estimated that the move would save companies some $288 million over 10 years. The changes, finalized last month and slated to take effect on Dec. 27, loosen notification and certification rules for fossil fuel companies and toss out a requirement that offshore equipment be designed to withstand the most extreme weather and pressure conditions. In May, the Trump administration took aim at the Well Control Rule, a safety monitoring regulation meant to prevent the kind of incident that killed 11 workers and resulted in some 200 million gallons of crude oil leaking into the Gulf of Mexico. Finalized in 2016, six years after the Deepwater Horizon disaster, the rule requires additional inspection and maintenance of blowout preventers, a device designed to automatically seal a well and stop an uncontrolled release of oil and gas. The Interior Department's proposed overhaul would loosen the inspection and oversight requirements for this equipment. Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule, this effort is all about helping industry. In fact, many of the proposed changes to the Well Control Rule were requested by oil companies, as Eric Lipton of The New York Times reported in March. In comments submitted to the agency in August, 10 state attorneys general argued that weakening the rule at the same time as the Trump administration is looking to radically expand offshore drilling "is analogous to taping over the mirrors and unbuckling one's seat belt just before getting on the highway." Donald Boesch, a professor of marine science at the University of Maryland who served on the bipartisan commission that investigated the causes of the Deepwater Horizon blowout, said easing the safety rules is both "premature" and "ill-considered." He also expressed concern about merging the two agencies, but said the administration has in effect already done that by putting the safety bureau in the hands of Angelle, a big proponent of offshore fossil fuel development. In April 2017, Trump signed an executive order aimed at opening up protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to oil and gas leasing. It instructed the Interior Department to review the current five-year program and write new rules for offshore oil and gas drilling under the guise of an "America-First Offshore Energy Strategy." If approved, the leasing plan would go into effect from 2019 to 2024 and replace the current program, which is set to run through 2022 and was approved following an extensive, multiyear review. The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans, who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism. Days after the proposal's release, Zinke traveled to Florida and announced that on the recommendation of Gov. Rick Scott ― a staunch Trump supporter ― he was removing the state's coastal waters from consideration. Zinke walked back Florida's exemption after other states demanded that they receive the same pass. He has since hinted to officials from at least six states that the waters off their coasts will not be included in the final plan, Reuters reported this week.	False
326	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-07-15	Employees wanting "medical or religious" exceptions can hash those out with a company policy team.	The Motley Fool named it one of the top five most valuable startups in America.	WeWork is perhaps the most well-known company to emerge offering co-working spaces to freelancers, small businesses and even employees of large companies such as Microsoft.	New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact, even more than switching to a hybrid car," WeWork co-founder Miguel McKelvey said in an email to staffers.	If WeWork employees want a burger while on business, the money is coming out of their own pockets.		Company bans meat for employees on business... If WeWork employees want a burger while on business, the money is coming out of their own pockets. The global workplace startup told employees this week that the company will ban employees from expensing meals that contain red meat, pork or poultry, Bloomberg reported. The company won't provide meat for events at its 400 locations, either — part of an effort to reduce its environmental footprint." New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact, even more than switching to a hybrid car," WeWork co-founder Miguel McKelvey said in an email to staffers. The no-meat policy will also affect self-serve food kiosks at many of WeWork's 400 locations worldwide, according to Bloomberg. Employees wanting "medical or religious" exceptions can hash those out with a company policy team. More: As co-working grows up, niche spaces take center stageWeWork boasts 6,000 employees worldwide, according to Bloomberg. The company estimates its no-meat policy will save 15,507,103 animals by 2023, according to Business Insider, along with 16.6 billion gallons of water and 445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide, the heat-trapping gas that alters Earth's climate. WeWork confirmed the policy change to both news outlets. WeWork is perhaps the most well-known company to emerge offering co-working spaces to freelancers, small businesses and even employees of large companies such as Microsoft. The Motley Fool named it one of the top five most valuable startups in America.	False
748	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-10-14	"Our work is to inform better choices and it would actually be very useful to know for sure it didn't work.	Keith believes the experiment may help to measure the feasibility and risks involved in GE, an umbrella term for a range of techniques to deliberately adjust the climate in an effort to mitigate global warming.	ll the techniques being proposed have potentially severe environmental impacts," said Silvia Ribeiro of the ETC Group, leading campaign monitors of new technologies and their possible impact on the world's poorest."	hey also ignore the question as to why there's not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction," she added.	I'd love to publish that."		Geoengineering is not a quick fix for climate change, experts warn Trump Leading climate scientists have warned that geoengineering research could be hijacked by climate change deniers as an excuse not to reduce CO2 emissions, citing the US administration under Donald Trump as a major threat to their work. David Keith, a solar geoengineering (GE) expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions, at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement." ne of the main concerns I and everyone involved in this have, is that Trump might tweet 'geoengineering solves everything – we don't have to bother about emissions.' That would break the slow-moving agreement among many environmental groups that sound research in this field makes sense," Keith said on the sidelines of the Climate Engineering Conference (CEC) in Berlin. Indeed, utterances from people in or close to the Trump administration – most notably GE proponent secretary of state Rex Tillerson, who has referred to climate change as "just an engineering problem" – make it clear they either tacitly or directly support the idea of climate engineering. Earlier this year, Keith, a professor of applied physics at Harvard announced plans to conduct an outdoor trial into stratospheric aerosol injection, involving launching a high-altitude balloon that will spray a small quantity of reflective particles into the stratosphere. Keith believes the experiment may help to measure the feasibility and risks involved in GE, an umbrella term for a range of techniques to deliberately adjust the climate in an effort to mitigate global warming. They include reflecting sunlight from space, adding huge quantities of lime or iron to the oceans, pumping deep cold nutrient-rich waters to the surface of oceans and irrigating vast swaths of desert to grow trees. Supporters of research into geoengineering argue that its techniques – roughly-speaking divided into carbon dioxide removal (CDR, or negative emission technologies) which removes greenhouse gases, and solar-radiation management (SRM or solar geoengineering) which reduces the amount of solar energy warming the planet – could help to lessen some of the consequences of climate change. However, the common consensus is that the techniques should be used in addition to reductions in CO2 emissions. This week's conference drew attention to the huge risks involved." ll the techniques being proposed have potentially severe environmental impacts," said Silvia Ribeiro of the ETC Group, leading campaign monitors of new technologies and their possible impact on the world's poorest." hey also ignore the question as to why there's not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction," she added. Concerns focus on techniques such as stratospheric aerosol injection, which some experts say has the potential to reduce the amount of rain from Asian and African monsoons and could have a devastating impact on the food supply of billions of people. Aerosol injection also has the potential to reduce the ozone layer and heighten the risk of exposure to ultraviolet radiation. Other possible side effects of GE may be an increase in ocean acidification, a change in weather patterns, a rapid rise in temperatures, and a huge uptake in the use of agricultural land, all of which could prompt mass migration of millions of climate change refugees. But scientists such as Keith, and Mark Lawrence, scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies (IASS) in Potsdam, argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less, almost impossible to achieve, the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster." t will be very difficult to achieve the Paris agreement calls without some form of climate engineering," Lawrence said. "It's not impossible, but it's hard to imagine we would make the major changes in our infrastructure and lifestyles in the time necessary." Keith also dismissed the view that climate engineers like himself were on a mission to prove that climate engineering worked at all costs, or else see the importance of decades of their life's work evaporate." t the best climate engineering is a supplement, and it could be that we shouldn't do it," he insisted. "Our work is to inform better choices and it would actually be very useful to know for sure it didn't work. Right now there are heads of state and others in leadership who are explicitly assuming it could work, that it's there if we need it. But let's say we found something deep in the climate models which suggested we were overoptimistic about solar geoengineering, then I would say 'abandon it'. That would be great. I'd love to publish that."	False
822	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-24	Here – courtesy of Kenneth Richard, who has waded through them all – are some examples of what they say.	Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult.	What they are saying in their different ways is that "global warming" – as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man-made CO2 emissions – is bunk; or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk.	Natural factors such as the Sun (106 papers), multi-decadal oceanic-atmospheric oscillations such as the NAO, AMO/PDO, ENSO (37 papers), decadal-scale cloud cover variations, and internal variability in general have exerted a significant influence on weather and climate changes during both the past and present.	It will look something like this.		Delingpole: Now 400 Scientific Papers in 2017 Say 'Global Warming' Is a Myth Since then, that figure has risen to 400 scientific papers. Can you imagine the misery and consternation and horror this is going to cause in the corrupt, rancid, rent-seeking world of the Climate Industrial Complex?I can. It will look something like this. Just to be clear, so the greenies can't bleat about being misrepresented, here is what these various papers say:Modern temperatures, sea levels, and extreme weather events are neither unusual nor unprecedented.  Many regions of the Earth are cooler now than they have been for most of the last 10,000 years. Natural factors such as the Sun (106 papers), multi-decadal oceanic-atmospheric oscillations such as the NAO, AMO/PDO, ENSO (37 papers), decadal-scale cloud cover variations, and internal variability in general have exerted a significant influence on weather and climate changes during both the past and present.  Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult. And current emissions-mitigation policies, especially related to the advocacy for renewables, are often costly, ineffective, and perhaps even harmful to the environment.  On the other hand, elevated CO2 and a warmer climate provide unheralded benefits to the biosphere (i.e., a greener planet and enhanced crop yields). In other words, nobody is denying that climate changes, nobody is denying that the planet has warmed by 0.8 degrees C in the last 150 years, while only a handful deny that carbon dioxide (and other greenhouse gases) has the power to influence temperatures. What they are saying in their different ways is that "global warming" – as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man-made CO2 emissions – is bunk; or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk. Here – courtesy of Kenneth Richard, who has waded through them all – are some examples of what they say. Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of ClimateTogether with these 400 new papers, that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	False
487	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-11-23	First, it is not abstract.	This report is striking for two reasons.	The world's leading scientists agree that climate change is human-induced and warn that natural fluctuations in temperature are being exacerbated by human activity.	Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action.	The US climate assessment outlines the prospective impacts of climate change across every sector of American society."		Climate change: Report warns of growing impact on US life Unchecked climate change will cost the US hundreds of billions of dollars and damage human health and quality of life, a US government report warns." Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today," the 4th National Climate Assessment says. The report says climate change is "presenting growing challenges to human health and safety, quality of life, and the rate of economic growth". The warning is at odds with the Trump administration's fossil fuels agenda. During a blast of icy weather in Washington this week, Donald Trump tweeted, "whatever happened to global warming?"Now, without mentioning the president, his own scientists have answered their boss's question in comprehensive detail. Global warming is here in the United States, they say - now. It is already deadly serious and without urgent, dramatic change, it will be catastrophic. This report is striking for two reasons. First, it is not abstract. It gives many specific examples - overwhelmed dams in South Carolina; failing crops in the parched Great Plains; a rise in insect-borne disease in Florida. And, secondly, it majors on the economic impact, in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation. With warnings about the effects on crumbling infrastructure, falling crop yields and decreasing labour productivity, the report sounds an alarm that climate change will soon cascade into every corner of American life. The White House said the report - compiled with help from numerous US government agencies and departments - was inaccurate. Spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said it was "largely based on the most extreme scenario, which contradicts long-established trends by assuming that... there would be limited technology and innovation, and a rapidly expanding population". The world's leading scientists agree that climate change is human-induced and warn that natural fluctuations in temperature are being exacerbated by human activity. The US climate assessment outlines the prospective impacts of climate change across every sector of American society." With continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century - more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many US states," the report says." Without substantial and sustained global mitigation and regional adaptation efforts, climate change is expected to cause growing losses to American infrastructure and property and impede the rate of economic growth over this century." The report notes that the effects of climate change are already being felt in communities across the country, including more frequent and intense extreme weather and climate-related events. But it says that projections of future catastrophe could change if society works to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and "to adapt to the changes that will occur". Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action. Brenda Ekwurzel, director of climate science at the Union of Concerned Scientists and one of the report's authors, said the report made it clear that climate change was not "some problem in the distant future"." It's happening right now in every part of the country," she said. That view was echoed by Abigail Dillen, president of environmental group Earthjustice." While President Trump continues to ignore the threat of climate change, his own administration is sounding the alarm," she said. In October, President Trump accused climate change scientists of having a "political agenda", telling Fox News he was unconvinced that humans were responsible for the earth's rising temperatures. After taking office he announced the US would withdraw from the Paris climate change agreement, which commits another 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels. At the time, Mr Trump said he wanted to negotiate a new "fair" deal that would not disadvantage US businesses and workers. During his election campaign in 2016 Mr Trump said climate change was "a hoax". However he has since rowed back on that statement saying in a recent interview: "I don't think it's a hoax, I think there's probably a difference."A report released in October by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) - the leading international body evaluating climate change - said it could only be stopped if the world made major, and costly, changes. That means reducing global emissions of CO2 by 45% from 2010 levels by 2030, and reducing coal use to almost zero and using up to seven million sq km (2.7 million square miles) for land energy crops. If the world fails to act, the researchers warned, there would be some significant and dangerous changes to our world, including rising sea levels, significant impacts on ocean temperatures and acidity, and the ability to grow crops such as rice, maize and wheat.	False
655	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-06-03	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner, healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come."	We want to be there, we want to be providing solutions for the world.	We know where we're going."	anada wants to create good jobs, and wants to grow our economy and create opportunities for business.	Through crestfallen, Trudeau reiterated to the president "Canada's continued commitment to working internationally to address climate change.		Trudeau Team 'Disappointed' Over U.S. Exit From Paris Climate Accord Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his "climate change" minister Catherine McKenna are both "disappointed" over President Donald Trump's decision to break with the Paris climate accord. Trudeau and Trump exchanged words over the phone on Thursday night when the prime minister "expressed his disappointment with the president's decision," according to a news release from the Prime Minister's Office. Through crestfallen, Trudeau reiterated to the president "Canada's continued commitment to working internationally to address climate change. This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner, healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come." Despite the lofty objectives, when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers. Nonetheless, Liberal Environment and Climate Change Minister Catherine McKenna also found Trump's resolve to extricate the U.S. from the accord "deeply disappointing" and even suggested that the president will be missing out from the "inevitable" increase in green energy jobs that climate change proponents believe will soon be mushrooming around the world." he clean-growth economy is where the world is going and Canada is going to be part of it," McKenna said Thursday on Parliament Hill." anada wants to create good jobs, and wants to grow our economy and create opportunities for business. We want to be there, we want to be providing solutions for the world. We know where we're going." However, the U.S. move might well affect Trudeau's plans to implement a national carbon tax and his overall environmental agenda that many critics say will make the Canadian economy less competitive than its American counterpart. With the North American Free Trade Agreement on the cusp of renegotiation, environmental policy could well become integral to reaching a new agreement.	False
225	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-05-21	E.P.A.	The E.P.A.	Plans to Get Thousands of Deaths Off the Books by Changing Its Math Want climate news in your inbox?	In this case, the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires.	Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.		E.P.A. Plans to Get Thousands of Deaths Off the Books by Changing Its Math Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency plans to change the way it calculates the health risks of air pollution, a shift that would make it easier to roll back a key climate change rule because it would result in far fewer predicted deaths from pollution, according to five people with knowledge of the agency's plans. The E.P.A. had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama-era rule, the Clean Power Plan, and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1,400 premature deaths per year. The new analytical model would significantly reduce that number and would most likely be used by the Trump administration to defend further rollbacks of air pollution rules if it is formally adopted. The proposed shift is the latest example of the Trump administration downgrading the estimates of environmental harm from pollution in regulations. In this case, the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires. Many experts said that approach was not scientifically sound and that, in the real world, there are no safe levels of the fine particulate pollution associated with the burning of fossil fuels. Fine particulate matter — the tiny, deadly particles that can penetrate deep into the lungs and enter the bloodstream — is linked to heart attacks, strokes and respiratory disease.	False
270	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-07	Just a little patronizing, because I want to be an adult at the table when it comes to conversations about climate, and what we're going to do about it, and I don't want to be like someone who's sitting on the sidelines waiting for other people to act," she said, according to the Daily Mail."	"And the fact of the matter is that — what we talk about is, what are we going to do about those corporations?	Kiddo, I want you to just take a look.	One woman associated with the environmental group 350 New Hampshire Action, Rebecca Beaulieu, asked Biden how voters can trust him if he continues to associate himself with fossil fuel executives."	OK. Beaulieu, 24, said she "wasn't expecting" that kind of response from Biden and described it as "patronizing."		Joe Biden Promises Environmentalist: 'Look into My Eyes; I Guarantee You, We Are Going to End Fossil Fuel' Biden took questions from a group in New Castle, New Hampshire, Friday. One woman associated with the environmental group 350 New Hampshire Action, Rebecca Beaulieu, asked Biden how voters can trust him if he continues to associate himself with fossil fuel executives." ow can we trust that you're going to act on climate — on the climate crisis — if you're still attending fundraisers that fossil fuel executives are attending?" Beaulieu asked, according to the Daily Mail. Video shows Biden walking over to the woman, taking her hand, and making a solemn promise to "end fossil fuel … before 2050, God willing." Kiddo, I want you to just take a look. I want you to look into my eyes," Biden began."  guarantee you, I guarantee you, we are going to end fossil fuel, and I am not going to cooperate with them. Before 2050, God willing," Biden continued, adding that 2030 is not a realistic goal:No it can't be done by 2030. No, not one single person is arguing it can be done by that. But it can be done by 2050. Maybe 2045? And is the science increases, we may be able to move more quickly. But we have to we can fundamentally change things in the next 10 years, though, so that we set a path? I promise you, I promise you. OK. Beaulieu, 24, said she "wasn't expecting" that kind of response from Biden and described it as "patronizing." Just a little patronizing, because I want to be an adult at the table when it comes to conversations about climate, and what we're going to do about it, and I don't want to be like someone who's sitting on the sidelines waiting for other people to act," she said, according to the Daily Mail." 'm also like actively doing something to try to combat this climate crisis as it stands. Being called a kid is a little patronizing when I'm trying to do so much work," she added. She also said she was unsatisfied with Biden's refusal to bend his 2050 goal." ut I hope that he takes the climate crisis as seriously as he tried to make it seem and that if he's going to keep moving forward with his plans, he needs to reevaluate because 2050 is too late," she said. Biden recently came under fire for attending a fundraiser hosted by Andrew Goldman, a founder of the natural gas company Western LNG. The former vice president dismissed concerns, telling viewers of CNN's climate change town hall Wednesday that Goldman is "not a fossil fuel executive." He is not a fossil fuel executive," Biden said. "And the fact of the matter is that — what we talk about is, what are we going to do about those corporations? What have we done?""And everywhere along the way — for example, I've argued and pushed for us suing those executives who are engaged in pollution, those companies engaged in pollution," he added. "I've never walked away from that."	False
245	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-12-13	"Our plan would provide incentives for companies and individuals to lower emissions in ways they think are best."	e are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party," O'Brien said in the Reuters article.	"We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit, and we need climate policy that reflects that," said Kiera O'Brien, 21, a senior at Harvard University who co-founded the group."	he key here is the dividend – back to the people," former Sen. Trent Lott (R-MS), who supports the young group, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation."	The campaign will connect young conservatives with Republican lawmakers around the country to talk about climate policy.		Young Conservatives Balk at Republicans' Climate Change Stance, Launch Campaign for Carbon Tax The generation that has grown up with the constant drumbeat of manmade climate change is now shaping public policy, including some young conservatives who have launched a nationwide campaign in support of a carbon tax. The Thomson Reuters Foundation reported on the campaign, which runs counter to the stance of the Republican Party and President Donald Trump that the issue is more about globalization than saving the planet:Drawn from Republican groups on more than two dozen university campuses, the Young Conservatives for Carbon Dividends called for laws to tax oil, natural gas and coal producers of planet-warming greenhouse gases. The taxation plan would make fossil fuels more costly while the resulting revenues would go to taxpayers. "We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit, and we need climate policy that reflects that," said Kiera O'Brien, 21, a senior at Harvard University who co-founded the group." e are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party," O'Brien said in the Reuters article. The article pointed out that Trump has rejected the climate doomsday scenario and has instead acted to help the U.S. energy sector by slashing regulations and withdrawing the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord, both policies aimed at helping American workers and the economy. The college Republicans behind the carbon tax campaign said the Party should have, ahead of the 2020 election, a climate change plan in place. Their plan includes an initial $40-a-ton tax on carbon dioxide – a greenhouse gas – at mines, wells, and ports where products are produced. That tax rate would increase over time, according to Reuters.O'Brien said the plan includes a family of four receiving $2,000 a year from the carbon tax revenues to help with higher energy costs. The plan "harnesses the power of the free market to solve climate change through innovation," O'Brien said. "Our plan would provide incentives for companies and individuals to lower emissions in ways they think are best." The campaign will connect young conservatives with Republican lawmakers around the country to talk about climate policy. At least one older Republican backs the idea." he key here is the dividend – back to the people," former Sen. Trent Lott (R-MS), who supports the young group, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation." t's not sustainable for Republicans, through the leadership, to say 'We just don't want to talk about this,'" Lott said.	False
351	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-12-03	org.	"We all know the benefits of energy but there are associated effects that we have to manage."	His concerns about potential waves of lawsuits are not unfounded.	The company also plans on linking such targets to the pay of senior executives, subject to a shareholder vote in 2020.	Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long-term benefits.		Shell Will Tie Executive Pay To Future Carbon Emission Targets Shell is preparing to set strict carbon emissions targets in 2019 amid intense pressure from activist shareholders who believe energy companies should be held accountable for aspects of global warming. The company also plans on linking such targets to the pay of senior executives, subject to a shareholder vote in 2020. Shell is still in talks with investors about the percentage to be targets, but the company's top employee's salaries could be affected, The Financial Times reported Sunday." e will be systematically driving down our carbon footprint over time," chief executive Ben van Beurden told reporters Sunday. "We all know the benefits of energy but there are associated effects that we have to manage." The pledge is a significant change in position for van Beurden, who had previously opposed such proposals, citing concerns about potential lawsuits. His concerns about potential waves of lawsuits are not unfounded. Environmentalists have convinced several American cities to sue Exxon, Chevron, and other energy companies to force them to pay for supposedly making disasters worse. Judges have already dismissed several lawsuits, but the fear of future litigation is not lost on Shell and others. Shell now aims to curb emissions by around 20 percent over the next 15 years, and the company will hammer out specific targets starting in 2020. The latest move was backed by Climate Action 100, a group of nearly 300 international investors carrying roughly $32 trillion in assets. The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement, a non-binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years. Activist shareholders have continually pushed energy companies to make bold moves showing their adherence to cutting emissions. Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long-term benefits. (RELATED: A Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change)So-called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions. The process especially disadvantages small companies in favor of larger companies that have the resources to comply with investor dictates, the American Council for Capital Formation noted in May. Proxy advisory firms provide analysis and consulting services to issuers and companies about how annual and special proxies should be voted. The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
551	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-02-20	"Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court."	hey are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who don't want to follow the rules," said Aaron Colangelo, the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council.	They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law."	This apparent change of heart followed legal action filed by green groups, part of a cascade of courtroom standoffs that are starting to slow and even reverse the Trump administration's blitzkrieg of environmental regulations."	It was aimed not at sooty power plants or emissions-intensive trucks, but dentists.		'Sloppy and careless': courts call out Trump blitzkrieg on environmental rules In its first year in office, the Trump administration introduced a solitary new environmental rule aimed at protecting the public from pollution. It was aimed not at sooty power plants or emissions-intensive trucks, but dentists. Every year, dentists fill Americans' tooth cavities with an amalgam that includes mercury. About 5 tons of mercury, a dangerous toxin that can taint the brain and the nervous system, are washed away from dental offices down drains each year. In Trump's first day in the White House, the administration told the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to withdraw an Obama-era plan that would require dentists to prevent this mercury from getting into waterways. But in June, the rule was unexpectedly enacted. This apparent change of heart followed legal action filed by green groups, part of a cascade of courtroom standoffs that are starting to slow and even reverse the Trump administration's blitzkrieg of environmental regulations." he Trump administration has been sloppy and careless, they've shown significant disrespect for rule of law and courts have called them on it," said Richard Revesz, a professor at the New York University school of law."  expect we will see a number of further losses for the administration on similar grounds. If they keep showing the same disregard for the law, their attempt to repeal all these environmental regulations will go badly for them." The reversal of Obama's environmental legacy has been spearheaded by Scott Pruitt, who heads the EPA, the agency he repeatedly sued as Oklahoma attorney general. Pruitt, who accused Obama of "bending the rule of law" and federal overreach, has overseen the methodical delay or scrapping of dozens of rules curbing pollution from power plants, pesticides and vehicles. Ironically for Pruitt, who has touted a "back to basics" approach rooted safely within the confines of the law, this rapidly executed agenda has run into a thicket of legal problems, causing the administration to admit defeat in several cases. In July, a federal court ruled that the EPA couldn't suspend rules designed to curb methane emissions from new oil and gas wells. This was followed by a hasty retreat in August when the EPA agreed to not delay new standards to reduce smog-causing air pollutants, the day after 15 states and environment groups sued. Then, in December, a federal court told the EPA it couldn't delay a new standard for dangerous levels of lead in paint and dust. Other arms of the federal government have also been stymied from implementing Trump's deregulatory agenda. The US Fish and Wildlife Service, stung by a lawsuit, listed the rusty patched bumblebee as endangered in March after initially delaying the decision. And on Thursday, a federal court told the department of energy it must implement four energy efficiency regulations it was looking to scuttle. Many of these legal problems have stemmed from the sheer pace of the rollbacks – required public comment periods have been set aside in some cases, any rationale for repeal or delay has been missing in others. Opponents of the administration also believe there is a determination to expunge every vestige of Obama's environmental legacy, regardless of merit." hey are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who don't want to follow the rules," said Aaron Colangelo, the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council. "It all shows that this administration won't protect the environment unless they are sued. They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law." The EPA now faces a fresh wave of opposition as it looks to craft replacements for major Obama rules such as the clean power plan, which sought to limit emissions from coal-fired power plants, and the waters of the US rule, which greatly expanded clean water protections. If the proposed replacements are, as expected, far less onerous on industry than current iterations, environmentalists and around a dozen states, headed by New York and California, will be poised to further jam up the process in the courts." ver and over again, the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well-being of everyday Americans," said Eric Schneiderman, New York's attorney general. Schneiderman has been prolific in opposing Trump's environmental revisions, filing more than 50 lawsuits during the administration's first year to, among other things, protect the clean power plan, enforce stricter vehicle pollution standards and ensure that chlorpyrifos, a common pesticide linked to neurological harm to children, is banned." e've already beaten back several of this administration's toxic policies, from energy efficiency rollbacks to smog," Schneiderman said. "Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court."	False
435	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-12-04	e want to embrace better stewardship.	"The facts of the matter is observable data, climate change is more toward the peace time," he added, comparing the document to international relations.	We want to embrace reliability.	His "concern" as the leader of the federal agency, he said, is that "we need to be better at emphasizing the case for American energy."	In order to get there, we have to understand the technology.	A lot of the millennials look at that report and they don't look at the models," instead focusing on "rising sea levels that statistically and data-wise we don't know," he said. <sep> It's a job that comes with the sometimes conflicting tasks of preserving and protecting public lands and waters for future generations while also setting the policies that govern extracting natural resources from them. <sep> 	Ryan Zinke To Oil Reps: 'We've Gotten A Lot Better As Industry' It was clear Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke felt at home Tuesday addressing representatives of the industry that was a top donor to his congressional campaigns. It's the same industry that the Trump administration has worked so hard to prop up over the last two years, and that Zinke now regulates as chief steward of America's natural resources."  see a lot of familiar faces," he told the National Petroleum Council during its meeting in Washington, D.C., before launching into a series of go-to talking points about the importance of producing domestic energy, namely fossil fuels, and downplaying the dire conclusions of a recent federal climate report." e want to embrace better stewardship. We want to embrace reliability. In order to get there, we have to understand the technology. And in order to understand it, quite frankly, we have to work with you," he said. "I've been criticized [for] saying we want to work with you. I'll take the criticism." Zinke was referring to controversial comments he made in September during a keynote speech at the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association's meeting in Lafayette, Louisiana. "Our government should work for you," he told the oil and gas trade group, according to a post by the association. As head of the Interior Department, Zinke oversees some 500 million acres of land, or one-fifth of the United States, and 1.7 billion acres on the Outer Continental Shelf. It's a job that comes with the sometimes conflicting tasks of preserving and protecting public lands and waters for future generations while also setting the policies that govern extracting natural resources from them. Zinke has said that he's succeeded in "striking the right balance," but conservation efforts have taken a clear backseat as the administration has pushed forward with its "energy dominance" agenda. There were moments during Tuesday's speech where Zinke sounded like a seasoned oil man. He said he is "bullish" on energy and expects that within two years the U.S. will be "marching real close to" producing 14 million barrels of oil per day. And he agrees with Russian President Vladimir Putin that $60 per barrel is "a good spot to keep the economic engine" in good shape, he said." e've gotten a lot better as industry," Zinke said, quickly correcting himself. "You've gotten a lot better." He pointed to energy producers' success with domestic shale production, noting that companies have been able to turn a profit on oil from the Bakken fields in Montana and North Dakota when prices have been at around $30 per barrel. That, he said, "shows you how good we are and efficient we are." Zinke also saw the friendly atmosphere as an opportunity to, once again, cast doubt on the latest federal climate assessment. The 1,600-page report was issued by 13 federal agencies, including Interior, and released on Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving ― a move that many saw as an administrative attempt to bury the findings. Like so many other climate reports before it, the assessment warns that greenhouse gas emissions have put the planet on a path toward catastrophic climate change. But instead of blasting the report's authors ― there are more than 300 ― for basing their findings on the most extreme scenarios, a false claim that he and the White House pushed last week, Zinke on Tuesday blamed the media among other targets." he media focused on worst-case scenarios, which statistically we may not even be able to reach," he said. "The facts of the matter is observable data, climate change is more toward the peace time," he added, comparing the document to international relations. "It's kind of like the military," he said. "There's peace time and there's global nuclear combat. The media focused on global nuclear combat." A lot of the millennials look at that report and they don't look at the models," instead focusing on "rising sea levels that statistically and data-wise we don't know," he said. Zinke boasted to the room full of oil executives who have been primary beneficiaries of the Trump administration's denial of climate science and energy-dominance agenda, that the U.S. has "led the charge" in reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. His "concern" as the leader of the federal agency, he said, is that "we need to be better at emphasizing the case for American energy."	False
122	motherjones	left_bias	2019-07-27	"I thought his point that the timeline is set by science, not by politics, was compelling," Miller said.	Nevertheless, some audience members were impressed by Buttigieg's vision of a green America.	"We do better when we have a project," he said of his proposal at the Seattle event.	His pitch sounds like a revenue-neutral carbon tax, a fee on pollution that gets returned to taxpayers every year instead of going toward a climate resiliency fund or a green project.	"A lot of the answers are coming from the communities," he said.	"As well as the fact that we as a country need a project, and climate change is as good a one as we'll ever have." <sep> First: A carbon tax and dividend. <sep> 	Mayor Pete Doesn't Have a Climate Plan Yet. This Answer Gives a Major Hint at What It Will Look Like This story was originally published by Grist and appears here as part of the Climate Desk collaboration. More than 1,000 people crowded into the Showbox, a music venue in downtown Seattle, on Tuesday afternoon to witness Pete Buttigieg make an appearance in the Emerald City. The presidential candidate was running more than 45 minutes late and was just beginning to lose his audience—"I'm starting not to love Pete so much," someone remarked—when he took the stage. The mayor of South Bend, Indiana, has risen swiftly in the polls and managed to outraise the rest of the Democratic field this quarter. Buttigieg has credited climate change for inspiring him to jump into the presidential race. "One of the reasons I'm running for president is because America is running out of time," he said on Tuesday, framing the issue as a national security threat: "If we're gonna get real about national security, the time has come to treat climate disruption as the threat that it is." But Buttigieg hasn't yet released a climate plan on par with those proposed by some of his rivals, including Washington Governor Jay Inslee, who aims to mobilize $9 trillion to combat the crisis and has based his entire presidential bid on the issue. Senator Elizabeth Warren, former Texas Representative Beto O'Rourke, and even Joe Biden, the candidate-to-beat according to most polls, have proposed sweeping climate plans with trillions of dollars at play. Mayor Pete has released one climate-related policy proposal so far, a climate corps — similar to AmeriCorps—that would put thousands of Americans to work on climate resilience and conservation endeavors. "We do better when we have a project," he said of his proposal at the Seattle event. But where does Buttigieg stand when it comes to implementing an economy-wide plan?Buttigieg's answer to a question from the crowd shed light on what his climate plan could look like when (or if) he releases one. First: A carbon tax and dividend. "This is not about taking money out of the economy," he said. "I propose that we rebate that money right back out to the American people and we do it progressively." His pitch sounds like a revenue-neutral carbon tax, a fee on pollution that gets returned to taxpayers every year instead of going toward a climate resiliency fund or a green project. We'll have to wait for his actual plan to figure out what he means when he says he wants to do it "progressively." It's an idea that has failed at the ballot-box twice in Washington state, but a couple of other candidates, including Inslee and Cory Booker, have also championed some kind of carbon tax. Next, "massively increase the amount of federal R&D that goes into not just renewable energy but also energy storage and carbon storage," he said, adding that this investment should be on par with the moon landing or the Manhattan Project. Every candidate with a climate plan so far has vowed to dedicate major resources to green research and development. Buttigieg said he wants to quadruple federal funding for R&D. Then, rejoin the Paris Agreement—something that all the Democrats running for president have said they'll do—and host a stateside Pittsburgh Summit for mayors who are championing green policies and targets in their cities. "A lot of the answers are coming from the communities," he said. Finally, Buttigieg emphasized the role rural America can play in mitigating the crisis. "Every part of the American spectrum needs to be a part of the solution; it's not just cities," he said. Buttigieg said earlier in the night that science sets the timeline for climate action, not politics. But even if he took the White House in 2020, a carbon tax, some more federal investment in R&D, a national service corps, and yet another climate summit probably won't put the United States on the path to decarbonization at the pace that science demands. At any rate, it still doesn't have the same meat as the trillions promised and plans proposed by other candidates. Nevertheless, some audience members were impressed by Buttigieg's vision of a green America. Nancy Lauterbach, a 57-year-old real estate agent, said Buttigieg is "savvy enough to put the R&D that is needed into climate change." Ken Miller, a 71-year-old who owns a construction business, liked the mayor's authenticity. "I thought his point that the timeline is set by science, not by politics, was compelling," Miller said. "As well as the fact that we as a country need a project, and climate change is as good a one as we'll ever have."	False
639	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-06-03	"It was a voluntary program … The president was not truthful with the American people today, and the president who talked about putting America first, has now put America last."	Kerry's primary arguments that Trump's decision will hurt kids with asthma and damage the economy were incredibly misleading.	ir quality has been increasing, pollution has been decreasing, things are getting better and asthma's getting worse," Simmons said.	"He is hurting them.	Of course, scientists disagree over what has caused Earth's climate to warm over the past century, and, perhaps most importantly, increased pollen comes from increased plant growth and, as a result, increased crop yields.		John Kerry makes bogus claims against Trump for pulling out of Paris Agreement In an interview on MSNBC on Thursday, former Secretary of State John Kerry said President Donald Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Accord "puts America last," is "shameful" and will hurt kids by worsening their asthma." t is a shameful moment for the United States, to have unilaterally walked away from an agreement which did not have one other country requiring us to do something," Kerry told Andrea Mitchell. "It was a voluntary program … The president was not truthful with the American people today, and the president who talked about putting America first, has now put America last." Kerry claimed Trump is not helping the "forgotten American." Trump "is not helping the forgotten American," Kerry said. "He is hurting them. Their kids will have worse asthma in the summer. They will have a harder time having economic growth. He's made us an environmental pariah in the world, and I think it is one of the most self-destructive moves I've ever seen by any president in my lifetime." Kerry's primary arguments that Trump's decision will hurt kids with asthma and damage the economy were incredibly misleading. A 2015 study by researcher Dr. Corrine Keet at John's Hopkins Children Center found no statistically significant difference in the prevalence of asthma for kids living in inner-city areas, where there is much more air pollution, and kids who live in the suburbs and rural areas. More than 23,000 children were included in the study. Daniel Simmons, the vice president for policy at the Institute for Energy Research, noted in a quote appearing in an article by E&E News that asthma rates have been steadily worsening even though air quality has been improving." ir quality has been increasing, pollution has been decreasing, things are getting better and asthma's getting worse," Simmons said. "You have this disconnect." In 2013, USA Today reported that Earth's warming climate has caused pollen season to increase, thereby exacerbating many people's asthma. If climate change is being caused by human-produced carbon-dioxide, this could lend support to Kerry's claim about asthma. Of course, scientists disagree over what has caused Earth's climate to warm over the past century, and, perhaps most importantly, increased pollen comes from increased plant growth and, as a result, increased crop yields. Should more plants and food for people and animals really be demonized?Kerry's argument that Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris Agreement will cause economic problems is equally absurd. Kerry cited in the interview the "millions" of renewable-energy jobs that have been created to help curb carbon-dioxide emissions as an example of how the Paris Agreement and its associated efforts would have a positive impact on the economy, but the truth is that the only reason the wind and solar energy industries have been able to survive is because they are heavily subsidized by taxpayers. Further, wind and solar are much more expensive forms of energy, which means Americans' power bills would continue to rise under the terms of the Paris Climate Agreement. As H. Sterling Burnett, a research fellow in climate and energy issues for The Heartland Institute, where I also work as executive editor and a research fellow, noted in a recent article on Trump's decision, "Numerous studies, including a NERA Economic Consulting report cited in Trump's announcement, showed meeting the carbon-dioxide targets imposed on the United States under the Paris agreement would force the premature closing of many of the nation's least-expensive power plants. NERA estimated meeting the nation's obligations under the agreement would cost the U.S. economy nearly $3 trillion, and by 2040, the United States would have lost 6.5 million industrial-sector jobs, including 3.1 million manufacturing jobs."	True
277	rt	questionable_source	2019-07-14	Think your friends would be interested?	If both options were to fail, Beykpour suggested "we dump this site" and move on.	Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake "grassroots" support for the facility and "change the conversation."	However, few are happy to live near the firm's bottling plants, where they say heavy traffic disturbs their sleep and the company's water collection activities threaten endangered species and destroy the "rural character" of their areas.	With pro-corporate protesters likely to raise some eyebrows, he outlined a more radical approach: sue locals in the area for past damages to the local water system to bring "them to the table."		Community showdown with bottled water plant gets surprise twist when company reveals its own emails Bottled water firm Crystal Geyser's heavily-protested plans for a plant in Washington state are all but dashed, after company execs accidentally sent an internal email calling the operation "dead" to the local press. Crystal Geyser bottles natural spring water and sells it to thirsty Americans, with nearly one in five consumers drinking its beverages every month. However, few are happy to live near the firm's bottling plants, where they say heavy traffic disturbs their sleep and the company's water collection activities threaten endangered species and destroy the "rural character" of their areas. Earlier this year, Crystal Geyser bought land in Lewis County, Washington. The company planned on building a 100,000 square foot plant that would extract 400 gallons of water per minute from nearby springs. At present, Crystal Geyser needs a county permit to begin operations. However, in an email accidentally sent to The Chronicle but intended for a higher-up, Chief Operating Officer Page Beykpour said that the plan is likely "dead because the opposition has successfully convinced officials and the media against us." Locals did come out in force against the plant, with concerned citizens flooding council meetings since the plans were announced last month. Facebook groups have sprung up to oppose the plant, and the local tribal council voted unanimously against it. Beykpour offered his boss two "long shot" options to push back against the public outcry. Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake "grassroots" support for the facility and "change the conversation." With pro-corporate protesters likely to raise some eyebrows, he outlined a more radical approach: sue locals in the area for past damages to the local water system to bring "them to the table." If both options were to fail, Beykpour suggested "we dump this site" and move on. Once the paper got a hold of the email, Crystal Geyser went into panic mode. The newspaper claims Beykpour called the Chronicle and "pleaded for the email not to be published," and admitted that the company is still mulling suing its neighbors. In his email, Beykpour had claimed the Chronicle was "in bed with the opposition."A lawyer representing Crystal Geyser called the newspaper and threatened legal action for running the story. The Chronicle rubbished the threat, quoting a media law expert who stated that the company's email screw-up was its own fault and not the newspaper's. RT has reached out to Crystal Geyser for comment, and is awaiting a response. Crystal Geyser is no stranger to local anger. Residents in Mount Shasta, California were furious when the company announced plans to bottle water from a local aquefier in 2014, at a time when the state was threatened by drought and Californians faced mandatory water-use restrictions. In 2018, the company was accused of illegally disposing of arsenic-tainted wastewater from another of its California plants. According to a 16-count indictment, Crystal Geyser discharged the toxic waste into a pond that staff dubbed the "arsenic pond," and then worked with two waste disposal firms to illegally transport the arsenic to a plant without a license to treat it. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
628	National Review	right_bias	2017-05-15	In doing so, they reveal their own selective adherence to scientific reason.— Jillian Kay Melchior is a fellow at the Independent Women's Forum.	Somewhere, somehow, the vile stuff gets out and when it does, it causes untold damage to the environment."	"The containment system and notification system worked as they should."	These facts received little coverage, the media instead portraying a David-and-Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt, wealthy industry.	National media readily adopted opponents' preferred rhetoric in articles, calling demonstrators the "water protectors" and repeating their claims that the protests were "peaceful and prayerful."		Does the Environmental Left Understand How Modern Pipelines Work? Last week week, a routine entry in the searchable database at the website of the South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources indicated that the Dakota Access Pipeline saw an 84-gallon crude-oil spill in April. The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an "I told you so" moment, but activists' gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work. The spill occurred in an Energy Transfer Partners facility specifically equipped to catch spills. Moreover, the precautions in place to prevent environmental damage worked exactly as they should, according to the South Dakota Department of Environment and National Resources." s spills go, this spill was contained, all product was cleaned up quickly, and there were no impacts to the environment," Kim Smith, a spokesperson for the South Dakota department, told me. "The containment system and notification system worked as they should." Compare that to the hysterical reaction from leftist activists and their media allies. Writing in the Guardian, opinionist Julian Brave NoiseCat said that the leak "demonstrates the risk of technological and human failure inherent in crude oil pipelines," adding that "indigenous communities, ranchers, and workers [are] forced to live under the constant threat of petroleum poisoning." Jan Hasselman, a lawyer for the Standing Rock Sioux, told the Huffington Post: "They keep telling everybody that it is state of the art, that leaks won't happen, that nothing can go wrong. It's always been false. They haven't even turned the thing on, and it's shown to be false." And a Clean Technica reporter claimed the incident "drives home an essential truth about all the systems mankind has devised to transport oil from place to place," adding: "They all leak. Somewhere, somehow, the vile stuff gets out and when it does, it causes untold damage to the environment." Such biased narratives have bedeviled the Dakota Access Pipeline from the beginning. National media readily adopted opponents' preferred rhetoric in articles, calling demonstrators the "water protectors" and repeating their claims that the protests were "peaceful and prayerful." In actuality, the protests were anything but peaceful, as we reported at the time. Local authorities struggled to respond as demonstrators resorted to violence and vandalism. Protestors reportedly threw Molotov cocktails and stones at law enforcement, also threatening police and their families and posting their home addresses online. Local ranchers said protestors trespassed on their land and damaged their property. By the time the protests ended, hundreds had been arrested. These facts received little coverage, the media instead portraying a David-and-Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt, wealthy industry. And while the Left likes to accuse conservatives of being anti-science, it has ignored any evidence that doesn't support its anti-pipeline agenda. Comprehensive environmental reviews, conducted under the Obama administration, showed the risk posed by Keystone XL and the Dakota Access Pipeline to be minimal. But some of the same environmentalists who denounced Trump for moving ahead with the pipelines also rushed to participate in the March for Science. Green activists have also spent the last year publicizing scary statistics about oil pipelines. But just as with the recent Dakota Access Pipeline spill, the reality is less convenient for their political preferences. Cutting-edge technology such as the containment system installed at the pump station in Tulare, S.D., means that it's safer than ever to transport oil by pipeline. The Fraser Institute, a Canadian free-market think tank, analyzed U.S. State Department data, finding that 70 percent of spills that have occurred in North America were a cubic meter or less — hardly the massive leakage environmentalists have implied. Moreover, the Fraser Institute found that only 17 percent of spills take place along the pipeline's route, the rest occurring in facilities such as the Tulare pump station, which are specially equipped to safely handle spills and avoid environmental contamination. Overall, the number of pipeline incidents in which people or the environment were harmed has dropped by more than 50 percent since 1999 — even as the United States saw its energy production skyrocket. The outcome of the Dakota Access Pipeline spill was a technological triumph that should reassure its skeptics. The pipeline's opponents are trying to spin it into a cautionary tale. In doing so, they reveal their own selective adherence to scientific reason.— Jillian Kay Melchior is a fellow at the Independent Women's Forum.	False
379	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-10-30	Cooper's order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles, use more wind and solar energy, and cut energy use at state-owned buildings.	"With historic storms lashing our state, we must combat climate change, make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters."	Cooper also asked agencies to promote "climate adaptation" and green energy use, including wind and solar."	Roy Cooper signed an executive order Monday he says is meant to "combat climate change" and "lessen the impact of future natural disasters," like hurricanes.	"So the 'ocean heat wave' theory is obviously bogus."		North Carolina Gov Roy Cooper Says New Green Policies Will 'Lessen The Impact' Of Hurricanes North Carolina Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper signed an executive order Monday he says is meant to "combat climate change" and "lessen the impact of future natural disasters," like hurricanes. Cooper's order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles, use more wind and solar energy, and cut energy use at state-owned buildings. Cooper also asked agencies to promote "climate adaptation" and green energy use, including wind and solar."  strong clean energy economy combats climate change while creating good jobs and a healthy environment," said Cooper. "With historic storms lashing our state, we must combat climate change, make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters." The order comes more than one month after Hurricane Florence dumped record amounts of rainfall over the Carolinas after making landfall as a Category 1 storm. Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas, causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives. Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man-made global warming. Some scientists said warm waters "supercharged" Florence and sea level rise made storm surge significantly worse. (RELATED: Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado)However, not all scientists agreed. Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out that Florence formed over "abnormally cool" ocean waters, then weakened over cooler waters — the opposite of what forecasters expected." here is no reason to suggest that global warming or an 'ocean heat wave' supercharged Hurricane Florence," University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Mass said in September. "So the 'ocean heat wave' theory is obviously bogus." The order comes more than one month after Hurricane Florence dumped record amounts of rainfall over the Carolinas after making landfall as a Category 1 storm. Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas, causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives. Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man-made global warming. Some scientists said warm waters "supercharged" Florence and sea level rise made storm surge significantly worse. (RELATED: Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado)However, not all scientists agreed. Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out that Florence formed over "abnormally cool" ocean waters, then weakened over cooler waters — the opposite of what forecasters expected." here is no reason to suggest that global warming or an 'ocean heat wave' supercharged Hurricane Florence," University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Mass said in September. "So the 'ocean heat wave' theory is obviously bogus." Mass also said that "most of the major impacts of the storm was because it slowed down near the coast, causing an extended period of rain." He added there's "no credible theory of observational evidence that such slowing down has anything to do with global warming." While scientists predict continued global warming could make future hurricanes more intense, the latest United Nations climate report found that many studies showed a "decreasing trend in the global number of tropical cyclones and/or the globally accumulated cyclonic energy." Cooper, however, says his executive order will make North Carolina "more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters" by putting more electric vehicles on the road and cutting emissions. But even if Cooper's plan achieves its goal of cutting state greenhouse gas emissions, it would have virtually no impact on projected global warming, based on climate model simulations. For example, the Obama administration's pledge to cut U.S. emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 was only projected to avert 0.001 degrees Celsius of projected global warming a year. If that's the impact on future temperatures cutting emissions for the entire country would have, North Carolina's emissions cuts would have an even less significant impact.	False
567	breitbart	questionable_source	2018-07-28	In an interview with the Flash Report this week, Cox said water, housing affordability, and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle.	Poll: Half of Likely California Voters See Environment as Key Issue in Governor's Race Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category.	Meanwhile, the PPIC poll also found that "likely voters see drought and water supply as the top environmental issue facing the state, followed by air pollution; a majority (58%) support a water bond on the November ballot"; and noted that "[a] strong majority of likely voters (69%) say that the effects of global warming have already begun."	every single time we've covered it's been a palpable ratings killer.	According to the poll, which has a 3.4% margin of error, 67% of Democrats, 54% of independents, and 33% of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Cox's views on environmental issues will impact how they vote.		Poll: Half of Likely California Voters See Environment as Key Issue in Governor's Race Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category. According to the poll, which has a 3.4% margin of error, 67% of Democrats, 54% of independents, and 33% of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Cox's views on environmental issues will impact how they vote. So far, Newsom holds a 24-point lead over Cox, who beat former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigos in the June primary to proceed to the November general election. Meanwhile, the PPIC poll also found that "likely voters see drought and water supply as the top environmental issue facing the state, followed by air pollution; a majority (58%) support a water bond on the November ballot"; and noted that "[a] strong majority of likely voters (69%) say that the effects of global warming have already begun." In an interview with the Flash Report this week, Cox said water, housing affordability, and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle. He reportedly blamed "out-of-touch-elites" for the Golden State's water issues, and called Newsom the "poster boy" for these problems. Environmental issues have been a strong point for Newsom, who last year said he would use specific environmental laws in California to stop President Donald Trump's border wall from being built. For all the talk about the importance of environmental issues to voters in the deep blue state of California, the topic does not seem to do well for media outlets — even left-wing ones. Chris Hayes of MSNBC recently said networks mostly try to avoid discussing environmental issues related to the topic of climate change because "almost without exception. every single time we've covered it's been a palpable ratings killer. so the incentives are not great." Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News. Follow her on Facebook and Twitter.	False
283	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-20	And I want you to unite behind the science."	She submitted the United Nation's IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony, writing, "I am submitting this report as my testimony because I don't want you to listen to me …I want you to listen to the scientists.	"Inspired by the young people leading on today's #ClimateStrike and committed to standing alongside them in the battle against climate change":The global strike follows Thunberg's appearance before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis.	#ClimateStrike":"Climate change is an existential threat—and we are already facing the effects.	here is nothing more powerful than our nation's youth marching together, demanding action be taken to protect our planet — and their future," Sen. Kamala Harris (D-CA) wrote.		Watch: Global Climate Strike Inspired by Activist Greta Thunberg Underway The global strike, set just days before September 23's U.N. Climate Action Summit in New York, is expected to draw millions of activists, who believe human activity is contributing to climate change and that drastic measures – such as limiting meat consumption, reforming the transportation sector, and banning plastic straws – need to be taken in order to combat the looming threat. Videos are surfacing from protests across the globe, showing sizable crowds in places like Ireland, Germany, Australia, Uganda, and more:Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn participated in the climate strikes in London and condemned President Trump for pulling out of the Paris Climate Agreement." o more of this handholding with Donald Trump," he told the crowd. "We want every country on board on this":There are also climate strikes taking place in major cities across the U.S., including Boston, San Francisco, Seattle, D.C., and New York City. Famed teen activist Greta Thunberg – who sailed to the U.S. in order to avoid making a massive carbon footprint  – will participate in the climate strike in New York City, where over one million students have been given permission to skip class in order to protest climate change:Many Democrat presidential candidates are praising the effort as protests continue to kick-off across the nation." here is nothing more powerful than our nation's youth marching together, demanding action be taken to protect our planet — and their future," Sen. Kamala Harris (D-CA) wrote. "It's time our leaders listened. #ClimateStrike":"Climate change is an existential threat—and we are already facing the effects. The youth-led #ClimateStrike and the solidarity strikes from groups like @AMZNforClimate show that our country is ready to fight for the big, structural change we'll need to tackle the climate crisis," Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) tweeted:"Young people have already demonstrated they can take on powerful fossil fuel companies and force politicians to answer their call to action," Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) wrote." o the millions of young people and allies worldwide who are striking today to demand climate justice: I stand with you. #ClimateStrike," he added:"Our planet is in crisis—but we aren't powerless to combat it," Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) declared. "Inspired by the young people leading on today's #ClimateStrike and committed to standing alongside them in the battle against climate change":The global strike follows Thunberg's appearance before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis. She submitted the United Nation's IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony, writing, "I am submitting this report as my testimony because I don't want you to listen to me …I want you to listen to the scientists. And I want you to unite behind the science."	False
700	CNN	left_bias	2017-09-13	"To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm; versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced."	What we are focusing on right now is taking care of the folks who survived this disaster who need our immediate help," he said.	We continue to take seriously the climate change, not the cause of it, but the things we observe."	"There's a cyclical nature to a lot of these hurricanes.	Both instead said the focus needs to be on preparedness and resiliency.		Trump administration doesn't want to talk about climate change Last year was the Earth's warmest recorded year, the third year in a row to set a new record for global average temperatures. Rising temperatures are likely to increase the intensity and impact of major storms, scientists say, yet in the wake of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, the Trump administration has resisted talking about climate change at all. Several key administration officials have been on message this week declining to discuss the issue and how to address the causes of global warming and increased greenhouse gas emissions. Mick Mulvaney, the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, said climate change is a "longer discussion on another day" and a "big topic for the media." I'll be more than happy to have a longer discussion on another day about climate change, man-made climate change," Mulvaney told CNN's Jake Tapper on "The Lead" Wednesday." What we are focusing on right now is taking care of the folks who survived this disaster who need our immediate help," he said. "There's plenty of time later on to have those discussions, and I know we will because climate change is clearly a big topic for the media, but we will continue to focus our attention on the folks who need it right now." Both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering in CNN interviews Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of hurricanes such as Harvey and Irma. Both instead said the focus needs to be on preparedness and resiliency. "Regardless of what causes disasters, it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences," Long told CNN. "The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry, which we do not have, and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection." Duke echoed Long's thoughts on the need for "resiliency," a term frequently used during the administration's storm response. "We live in a changing world, and as the FEMA administrator said, we always have to look at not just the response, but the preparedness and the resilience," said Duke. "And I think it's important that as we come together as a country, we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response, that we are adapting properly." Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm, Duke responded "I -- you know, the data, I don't know what it particularly indicates. We haven't had a major storm like this in a quite a while." Duke added that she had to talk to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration about whether the storms were an "anomaly year or a trend year." Global warming will likely cause tropical cyclones to intensify on average globally and add to a larger potential for destruction according to NOAA Tom Bossert, White House adviser on Homeland Security, was equally remiss to talk about the likely causes of the two hurricanes at a White House briefing Monday. "Causality is something outside of my ability to analyze right now," he said. "There's a cyclical nature to a lot of these hurricanes. We continue to take seriously the climate change, not the cause of it, but the things we observe." He added that the White House would have to perform a "trend analysis" in the future -- insinuating that hurricane systems are cyclical and not tied to global warming. President Donald Trump, who pulled the US out of the Paris climate accords earlier this year, has previously called global warming a "hoax." When asked whether Trump's personal opinion on climate change has changed at all, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said, "I don't think that it's changed over the last several weeks," adding that she remains unsure whether the President is reconsidering the Paris deal following the hurricanes. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNN in an interview about Hurricane Irma on Thursday that the time to talk about climate change isn't now -- saying the question was "insensitive." "Here's the issue," Pruitt said. "To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm; versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced." In addition to the administration's efforts to wipe mention of climate change from the federal agency websites, it has proposed cutting EPA funding intended to assist coastal communities in preparing for the impacts of climate change as well as rolled back regulations meant to advise on building against rising sea levels.	False
304	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-09	So it is important to create jobs and activities that generate income, while protecting the environment and helping people to emerge from poverty," he declared.	n a word, there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earth's goods, not only of present generations, but also of those yet to come," he said.	It is also true, however, that, for the peoples concerned, a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival.	The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem, while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment."	e are faced not with two separate crises, one environmental and the other social, but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental," he said."		Pope Francis: Loss of Biodiversity Jeopardizes Earth's Future "Your lovely island of Madagascar is rich in plant and animal biodiversity, yet this treasure is especially threatened by excessive deforestation, from which some profit," Pope Francis told authorities and diplomats on Saturday." he deterioration of that biodiversity compromises the future of the country and of the earth, our common home," he warned. The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem, while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment." s you know, the last forests are menaced by forest fires, poaching, the unrestricted cutting down of valuable woodlands," he said. "Plant and animal biodiversity is endangered by contraband and illegal exportation." It is also true, however, that, for the peoples concerned, a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival. So it is important to create jobs and activities that generate income, while protecting the environment and helping people to emerge from poverty," he declared. The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems, insisting that the two are intimately intertwined." e are faced not with two separate crises, one environmental and the other social, but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental," he said." n a word, there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earth's goods, not only of present generations, but also of those yet to come," he said. Pope Francis has made the care of the environment a central theme of his six-year pontificate, returning again and again to issues of ecological responsibility, the dangers of carbon emissions, and the scourge of climate change. In 2015, he became the first pope in history to devote an entire encyclical letter to the topic of the environment with the publication of Laudato Si ("Praised Be"), urging Christians to become more ecologically aware. In that text, the pontiff said that the earth "is beginning to look more and more like an immense pile of filth" as "once beautiful landscapes are now covered with rubbish." He also denounced a failure to recycle paper and other resources, while calling climate change "a global problem with grave implications" and "one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day." Citing "scientific studies," the pontiff said that "most global warming in recent decades is due to the great concentration of greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen oxides and others) released mainly as a result of human activity."	False
51	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-09-19	Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich, a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment.	officials."	Climate Action Summit on Sept. 23, an event that promises to "spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone."	But short-term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following "An Inconvenient Truth," a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore.	In 2008, ABC released an ominous video about what the world would look like in 2015.		Doomsdays that didn't happen: Decades of dire predictions... Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez recently suggested Miami would disappear in "a few years" due to climate change. The United Nations is convening a "Climate Action Summit" next week. And climate activist Greta Thunberg is on Capitol Hill this week telling lawmakers they must act soon. But while data from NASA and other top research agencies confirms global temperatures are indeed rising, a newly compiled retrospective indicates the doomsday rhetoric is perhaps more overheated. NYC SAYS 1.1M STUDENTS CAN ATTEND CLIMATE STRIKE PROTEST WITHOUT PUNISHMENTThe conservative-leaning Competitive Enterprise Institute has put together a lengthy compilation of apocalyptic predictions dating back decades that did not come to pass, timed as Democratic presidential candidates and climate activists refocus attention on the issue. The dire predictions, often repeated in the media, warned of a variety of impending disasters – famine, drought, an ice age, and even disappearing nations – if the world failed to act on climate change. An Associated Press headline from 1989 read "Rising seas could obliterate nations: U.N. officials." The article detailed a U.N. environmental official warning that entire nations would be eliminated if the world failed to reverse warming by 2000. Then there were the fears that the world would experience a never-ending "cooling trend in the Northern Hemisphere." That claim came from an "international team of specialists" cited by The New York Times in 1978. Just years prior, Time magazine echoed other media outlets in suggesting that "another ice age" was imminent. "Telltale signs are everywhere — from the unexpected persistence and thickness of pack ice in the waters around Iceland to the southward migration of a warmth-loving creature like the armadillo from the Midwest," the magazine warned in 1974. The Guardian similarly warned in 1974 that "Space satellites show new Ice Age coming fast." In 1970, The Boston Globe ran the headline, "Scientist predicts a new ice age by 21st century." The Washington Post, for its part, published a Columbia University scientist's claim that the world could be "as little as 50 or 60 years away from a disastrous new ice age." Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich, a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment. Ehrlich, in 1969, warned that "everybody" would "disappear in a cloud of blue steam in 20 years," The New York Times reported. According to The Salt Lake Tribune, Ehrlich, warning of a "disastrous" famine," urged placing "sterilizing agents into staple foods and drinking water." ANDY PUZDER: HERE'S WHY DEMS WANT TO GENERATE CLIMATE PANIC (AS THEY IGNORE WAYS TO REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS)Those predictions were made around the time former President Richard Nixon created the Environmental Protection Agency. Since then, the U.S. has adopted a series of environmental reforms aimed at limiting emissions. Years after those initial predictions, media outlets and politicians continue to teem with claims of apocalyptic scenarios resulting from climate change. Earlier this month, leading Democratic presidential candidates held a town hall on the issue and warned about the "existential" threat posed by a changing climate. Before the end of the month, 2020 candidates are expected to have another climate forum at Georgetown University. CEI's report came just before the U.N. Climate Action Summit on Sept. 23, an event that promises to "spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone." It also came a week after Rep. Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., warned that Miami would be gone in a "few years" because of climate change. She was responding to critics of her ambitious "Green New Deal," which seeks to reach net-zero emissions within just decades. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPOcasio-Cortez, whose plan has been endorsed by leading presidential candidates, previously joked that the world would end in 12 years if it didn't address climate change. But short-term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following "An Inconvenient Truth," a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore. In 2008, ABC released an ominous video about what the world would look like in 2015. As the video warned about rising sea levels, a graphic showed significant portions of New York City engulfed by water. Gore himself famously predicted in the early 2000s that Arctic ice could be gone within seven years. At the end of seven years, Arctic ice had undergone a period of expansion, though recently it has been melting at a quicker pace.	False
297	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-02-12	It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship.	The mayor said he had challenged the city's Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer: "Instead of saying all the reasons why not, get to a reason as to why."	The plan also aims to provide every American with a guaranteed "job with a family-sustaining wage, adequate family and medical leave, paid vacations, and retirement security to all people."	Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News.		Eric Garcetti Declares 'Green New Deal' in L.A., Cancels Natural Gas Plants; Officials Doubt 'Keeping the Lights On' Instead, the city will look for energy from renewable sources, including wind and solar, he decided." his is the Green New Deal … Not in concept, not in the future, but now," Garcetti said, as quoted by the Los Angeles Times. He made the decision despite the fact that "top staffers have argued in recent months that the gas plants are critical to keeping the lights on in the city," the Times noted. The term "Green New Deal" refers to a bill introduced by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) last week, which proposes moving the entire U.S. economy to renewable energy in the next ten years. The plan also aims to provide every American with a guaranteed "job with a family-sustaining wage, adequate family and medical leave, paid vacations, and retirement security to all people." The bill does not explain how those benefits will be paid for, nor how the renewable energy goals will be achieved, given that renewables currently provide less than 20% of the country's energy. Environmentalists are also opposed to using one of those renewable sources, hydroelectric power, because of concerns about environmental damage caused by dams. California has a law already in place mandating a shift to 100% renewable sources — but by 2045, not 2030. It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal. In his comments, Garcetti slammed natural gas as an energy source: "[N]ow is the time to start the beginning of the end of natural gas." Ironically, the switch from coal to natural gas over the past decade has enabled the U.S. economy to grow while reducing emissions over the long run. "More gas for electricity has been our most effective weapon at combating climate change," wrote RealClearEnergy editor Jude Clemente last year. Garcetti pledged to replace L.A.'s natural gas plants with wind and solar energy, but offered no plans describing how the city would do so, nor whether it would be able to meet the energy needs of an expanding city. Southern California already struggles to provide electricity to consumers during heat waves, when air conditioning use is at a maximum, and prices soar. In addition, utilities have begun shutting down power lines during high winds for fear of starting wildfires. During a natural gas leak in Porter Ranch in 2016, L.A. authorities worried that the temporary closure of one natural gas plant could lead to power outages. Nevertheless, Eric Garcetti was bullish on a future without fossil fuels — even without a plan to replace them. The mayor said he had challenged the city's Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer: "Instead of saying all the reasons why not, get to a reason as to why." Garcetti will leave office in 2022. The first of the three plants to be replaced will be retired in 2024. Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.	False
878	RT	questionable_source	2017-07-14	ome of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities," stated the complaint.	ver the past 30 days BOEM has been carefully evaluating the EP (exploration plan) in accordance with federal law and regulations…[including] site-specific Environmental Assessment…[and] conclude with a Finding of No Significant Impact," BEOM said in a statement.	Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oil's exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012, which led to a series of problems, mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	The lawsuit also argued that Trump's reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful.	The Trump administration provided the public only 21 days to review and comment on the exploration plan and only 10 days to comment on scoping for environmental assessment, according to Monsell."		US approves Alaska offshore oil & gas drilling, enraging environmental groups The US arm of a European multinational oil and gas company has been approved to begin exploratory drilling in Alaska's Beaufort Sea. Environmentalists argue the Trump administration doesn't have the authority for such a move and it would endanger land and marine life. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) gave conditional approval late Wednesday to Eni US, the US subsidiary of the Italian company Eni S.p.A., to drill four exploration wells from Spy Island, an artificial island created in the Beaufort Sea in Alaska. Drilling can only be conducted in the winter months, and is scheduled to begin in December 2017 and end in May 2019, BOEM said. The permit is for preparatory work, and does not authorize Eni to produce oil." ver the past 30 days BOEM has been carefully evaluating the EP (exploration plan) in accordance with federal law and regulations…[including] site-specific Environmental Assessment…[and] conclude with a Finding of No Significant Impact," BEOM said in a statement. The Obama administration banned oil and gas exploration in most of the US's Arctic Ocean and Atlantic Ocean waters last year, but President Donald Trump ordered Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke in April to review the ban with the goal of opening up offshore areas for oil and gas drilling. Eni's lease was due to expire at the end of 2017, according to Kristen Monsell, an attorney for the Center for Biological Diversity. The Trump administration provided the public only 21 days to review and comment on the exploration plan and only 10 days to comment on scoping for environmental assessment, according to Monsell." pproving this Arctic drilling plan at the 11th hour makes a dangerous project even riskier," Monsell told the Guardian. "An oil spill here would do incredible damage, and it'd be impossible to clean up." The Center for Biological Diversity, Greenpeace and REDOIL, a coalition of Alaska native groups, sued the Trump administration on May 3, citing the risk of offshore oil and gas exploration development to local communities and wildlife. The lawsuit also argued that Trump's reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful. In the lawsuit, the groups argued the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas are still undeveloped and are home to a rich array of unique wildlife species including polar bears, walruses, whales, seals, other mammals, birds and fish, some of which are classified as threatened or endangered." ome of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities," stated the complaint. "Several Arctic mammals, including polar bears and bearded seals, have been listed under the ESA (Endangered Species Act)." The region serves as important nurseries, feeding grounds and transit routes for marine animals. Seismic surveys and drilling activities could cause disruption and threaten wildlife directly. The area is "remote and foreboding," the complaint said. In winter, the seas are covered in ice and shrouded in darkness, it is prone to storms and fog, and there is little infrastructure to support industrial activity, with just small communities, and few jet runways. The region is hundreds of miles from the nearest Coast Guard station. Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oil's exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012, which led to a series of problems, mistakes and violations of environmental laws. During testing in the placid waters of Puget Sound, Shell destroyed its oil spill containment drone. On the way north, its drillship, the Noble Discoverer, dragged its anchor and nearly ran aground while moored near an Alaskan island. Once at the drill site in the Chukchi Sea, Shell had to undertake an emergency maneuver to relocate the drillship to avoid a large ice floe. On its way back from the Beaufort Sea, it lost control of its drilling vessel, the Kulluk, which ran aground in the Gulf of Alaska in severe weather and had to be towed to Seattle, Washington and then scrapped. The US Coast Guard cited the Noble Discoverer for numerous deficiencies after the drilling season, and the EPA determined Shell had violated the Clean Air Act during its drilling efforts and fined the company $1.1 million. Its drilling contractor pleaded guilty to eight felony offenses relating to environmental pollution and safety and agreed to pay $12.2 million in fines.	False
449	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-12-13	It was more specificities," Pocan said.	"It was really getting at making it specific and workable.	We wanted to make it so it could be an executable idea."	"Young people and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma."	But in Washington the snowball metaphor might more accurately describe how a markedly different brand of climate politics is gaining support.		Green New Deal Gains Key Support At Home As Trump Undercuts UN Climate Talks Abroad Nearly four years later, the White House is promoting the same brand of denialism and fealty to the fossil fuel industry at the United Nations' climate conference in Poland. But in Washington the snowball metaphor might more accurately describe how a markedly different brand of climate politics is gaining support. By Wednesday, the burgeoning effort to establish a select committee in the House of Representatives on a Green New Deal ― essentially a plan to make a plan ― picked up its strongest endorsements yet, netting support from the co-chairs of the 78-member Congressional Progressive Caucus and from the first labor union to back the proposal. At least 35 incoming or sitting House members support the resolution, as do four senators. The proposal, championed by Rep.-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), came as grassroots groups like the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats organized protests at the Capitol, with young activists occupying Democratic leaders' offices and urging lawmakers to pledge their support. Nearly 150 people were arrested Monday in the groups' largest demonstration yet. The resolution faced skepticism from the top Democrats on natural resources and energy committees that wield legislative power over the issues a Green New Deal would cover. But proponents tweaked language in the proposal this week to mandate the select committee to lay out a vision for a Green New Deal while maintaining existing committees' authority over the lawmaking process."  wouldn't even call it compromises. It was more specificities," Pocan said. "It was really getting at making it specific and workable. We wanted to make it so it could be an executable idea." The resolution calls for barring lawmakers who have accepted donations from the fossil fuel industry from serving on the select committee. Maintaining legislative power for existing committees with members who might have taken contributions from oil, gas and coal donors could pose some risk but would be worth it, said Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.), the other Progressive Caucus co-chair." he harm that's done in taking legislative authority away from the committees is far too great," she said. "Everyone is ready. There are a lot of champions in the rooms that we need them to be in who will be controlling the agenda." The unusually speedy sausagemaking process inverts decades of Democrats' dithering on the rapidly worsening crisis caused by greenhouse gas pollution. That mirrors the Trump administration's aggressive efforts to unwind the few, relatively weak climate regulations that exist and to upend fragile negotiations at the 24th Conference of the Parties in Katowice, Poland, where diplomats this week are struggling to garner support for basic resolutions recognizing the scientific consensus on global warming. The summit follows an October report from the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that found that world governments must halve emissions over the next 12 years to avert warming of 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit above preindustrial levels, beyond which climate change is forecast to be cataclysmic. The Trump administration announced plans to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord, but that won't legally go into effect until 2020. In the meantime, the administration has worked hard to further undercut the talks. The United States teamed up with Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to weaken a resolution to endorse the report — something the State Department outright refused to do." he Democratic Party needs an answer for what their plan is to match the U.N.'s recommendations in the IPCC report on climate," said Waleed Shahid, the communications director for Justice Democrats, a left-wing group that played a leading role in Ocasio-Cortez's winning primary campaign. "Young people and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma." That's not the only issue for which the Green New Deal would provide a fix. The Democratic Party has long been dogged by tensions between environmentalists clamoring for action on climate change and labor leaders warning against policies that ostracize the fossil fuel industry, which provides high-paid construction jobs. In August the Democratic National Committee, under pressure from unions, backtracked on a two-month-old resolution to ban donations from oil, gas and coal companies.	False
308	theduran	questionable_source	2019-06-22	The public: no tests, no international treaties, that will stop it.	Creation of many lakes all over the country to catch and store rain water is a primary objective.	Regarding the price of water.	More studies are needed.	Clean water has a value.		India is drying up. A return of the water wars Chennai is out of water, all 4 reservoirs are dry. More than 8.5 million live in greater Chennai, so it's about the population of greater San Francisco. An India government think tank predicts that by 2030, 600 million Indians won't have sufficient drinking water. It's kind of amazing that they didn't see this coming long ago and plan better. And even 2030 wouldn't help right now, which is what is needed. Rain is the solution, but that's not exactly a sure thing when you are in the middle of a historic drought. Little that can be done right now, except to keep on hauling water in from wherever they can. Many more will follow, in part, because people consider water to be a gift from God. People of India consume lots of water. If the price of water was higher they would consume less and there would be money available to search for new sources of water. The problem is when people think a resource is free and so plentiful that it can never run out that you get situations where it does run out. Clean water has a value. People should be paying what it costs to create and conserve or store fresh water. Regarding the price of water. Pricing will now have to include the risk of drought. The risk of drought is going up rapidly all over the world. I expect that India will need to invest in sea water desalination. That isn't cheap but whatever it costs, those costs have to be passed on to the consumers. The rain and drought situation in India is grim. Most of the Indian cities, towns and villages are reeling under severe water crisis. A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners. Drought in more than forth of Maharashtra. Crores of rupees of the tax-payers money will be used for tankers that will cause incredible pollution in the rural areas…. Creation of many lakes all over the country to catch and store rain water is a primary objective. Water balancing between various rivers, the so called "River Linking" Project is the second alternative. Once water is available in every village, the distribution to houses can be taken up as the third step. Traditional systems perhaps might have to be tweeked a little according to the needs and changing times but there is so much to learn from those who came before us. Village Talab system, is one example. When pond of one village was overflowed, water was released for next village on slopes. Rainwater was harvested at home. In Junagadh, Ahmedabad, Cambay cities. I am not sure whether anyone in Tamil Nadu even knows it had a traditional water harvesting system. Similarly, Odisha's traditional 'Kutta and Munda' water harvesting system by an NGO some decades back but I doubt if any university in Odisha is working on it or the State government is trying to revive the dying wisdom. This is true for all other states, barring Karnataka which is trying to bring back the Kalyani water harvesting structures. Reviving traditional water bodies and harvesting systems has been talked for quite sometime but no one seems interested. The largest desalination plant in South Asia is at Chennai, one of two there. It produces 36.5 million cubic meters/year. That's 9.6 billion US gallons. Israel gets the majority of its drinking water from desalination. It has the world's largest plant, at Hadera, producing 127 cubic meters from salt water, plus it looks like it has larger plants as well. That 33.5 billion gallons. Chennai has a large desalination plant, and a smaller one. Their policies are insufficient in many ways. Like what is water used for, etc. Regulations on ground water pumping, etc. I don't know specifics, but do know that if a city this size runs out of water, several people didn't do their jobs. Areas that are dry are becoming drier and those that are wet are getting more rain. But some of them have drier soil due to increased temperatures. The entire region from Syria to Iran has been suffering a drought that has been going on for about 15 years. At some point somebody has to call a spade a spade and accept the fact that the drought is the new normal. Seeding clouds can only bring as much rain as there is water in the atmosphere. Global climate change is, in turn, changing the distribution of where water is accumulating. At the least, we must improve our water distribution systems to mitigate the problem. Seeding is only a short term solution. Build nuclear and desalinate-Although there is no way nuclear can be added fast enough to by itself desalinate drinking water for 600 million by 2030. And India hasn't signed the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. What are the chances India uses geoengineering? The public: no tests, no international treaties, that will stop it. Geoengineering is cheap and not rocket science.A recent study indicates that almost nowhere will suffer under geoengineering. More studies are needed. The most likely is distributing air pollution in the stratosphere.I doubt that India will concern itself with niceties of international cooperation. Or whichever country leads the way. That's why there has been a campaign for more than a decade: test and make treaties. But we were busy.	True
216	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-07-20	In cities, that means millions of units - including those on cars and buses and trains - constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere.	Officials define extreme heat as a period of two to three days of high heat and humidity with temperatures above 90F (32C).	Crops can also feel the heat.	Asphalt warps and melts.	In cities, the cycle is also exacerbated by all the concrete, asphalt, steel and glass, creating an urban heat island.		Some unexpected consequences of extreme heat This weekend, close to 200 million Americans will face temperatures of 90F (32C) and higher. Add in humidity, and many cities across the East Coast and Midwest will be feeling more like 110F (43C). Heat waves have killed more people on average than any other extreme weather event in the US, according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). Officials define extreme heat as a period of two to three days of high heat and humidity with temperatures above 90F (32C). On the heels of earth's hottest June on record, the US National Weather Service (NWS) estimates over 100 record-high minimum temperatures could be set as the heat lingers even past sunset. Here's what that sort of heat can do. Air-conditioning is used in 87% of US homes, according to a 2018 report by the US Energy Information Administration (EIA). During heat waves, air conditioning use stresses power grids and can lead to city-wide outages. In cities, that means millions of units - including those on cars and buses and trains - constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere. Studies have found the extra heat from air-conditioning can raise temperatures by as much as 2C. And when it gets hotter, our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues. But it goes further than just an ever-hotter summer season - the emissions from air conditioners and their refrigerants is contributing to climate change. The man-made greenhouse gases used in air conditoners, called hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), are thousands of times more potent than carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. In cities, the cycle is also exacerbated by all the concrete, asphalt, steel and glass, creating an urban heat island. When temperatures get too high, planes get grounded. Extreme heat reduces air density and the amount of lift a plane can get to take-off. Temperatures of 120F (49C) saw dozens of flights cancelled in Phoenix during a 2017 heatwave. Smaller planes are affected first, but larger Boeing or Airbus jets have maximum operating temperatures around 126F (52C), AZ Central reported. In a heat wave, concrete and asphalt don't fare well. Asphalt warps and melts. Concrete, if water is involved, can sometimes explode or break open. This week, local media in Kansas has reported several instances of cracked and buckled roads as temperatures rise. In Iowa, one city mayor said old concrete roads soaked with floodwaters from this spring are now exploding and damaging sewer lines. The NWS outpost in Omaha, Nebraska, demonstrated just how hot vehicles can get in heat waves by cooking American biscuits on a dash. The temperatures reached a high of 185F (85C) - not quite enough for a proper bake, but certainly too hot for humans or animals to survive in. According to the National Weather Service, 21 young children have died in hot cars this year. Unsurprisingly, as everything warms up in a heat wave, anything metal gets even hotter. When it comes to power lines, this can cause dangerously low sagging. If lines droop low enough to touch the ground or trees, they can short out. Kinks can form on train rails when the metal expands. In 2012, a "heat kink" caused a 32-car-long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass; a similar derailment happened in 2017. Experts told Fox 26 News more than 2,100 trains have been derailed in the last 40 years because of these heat warps. Metal components in draw-bridges can expand and become inoperable - last year, Chicago firefighters had to hose down a downtown draw-bridge so it could be used. Crops can also feel the heat. Farmers across the Midwest are warning that vegetables can wilt in the heat and farms will lose productivity - worsening the situation after a historic flooding season this spring. Soybean farmers also say the dry conditions could cause an increase in spider mites and other plant diseases. Extreme heat makes pollution worse, which can be dangerous for the very young, the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases. In the nation's capital, where the mayor has declared a heat emergency, officials warned that air quality would reach unhealthy levels for these sensitive groups over the weekend.	False
119	cnn	left_bias	2019-09-04	CNN gathered input from advocacy groups, former government officials and academics.	Tap into growing public sentiment and work with corporationsStates and cities are addressing climate change, be it with zero-emission-vehicle goals or the regional cooperative of states in the Northeast that is trying to cap and reduce carbon emissions on its own.	This is a worldwide issue, and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India.	ET.	It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change.		15 things a president can actually do to tackle the climate crisis Watch CNN's live town hall on the climate crisis featuring 10 Democratic presidential candidates tonight beginning at 5 p.m. ET.(CNN) Candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination and most scientists say the climate crisis is the existential threat of our time, while President Donald Trump once claimed it's a hoax cooked up by the Chinese. Trump also said at last month's G7 meeting that "I'm an environmentalist," citing his experience filing environmental impact statements as a businessperson, though he skipped an actual session about climate change that his fellow world leaders attended. That pretty much sums up the difference between how a Democrat would treat climate change compared with Trump: as an emergency as opposed to as a joke. That, in itself, would be an enormous switch. This is a worldwide issue, and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India. In addition, the most important actions the US could take would require congressional approval, no easy task when the Senate floor is controlled by a Republican who represents coal country. But presidents actually have quite a bit of power to change US climate policy on their own, without waiting for Congress.A first set of steps would be to roll back numerous Trump actions that either sidelined US leadership on the climate or rescinded new standards that had been implemented during the Obama administration. CNN gathered input from advocacy groups, former government officials and academics. Here are some things any president could do on Day One in office:climate agreement was Promising to withdraw the US from the landmark 2015climate agreement was Trump's benchmark action rebutting the responsibility to act on climate change . He said, without much evidence, that it was a demeaning failure for American workers, who would be expected to do more than those in other countries. The result is the US is one of just a few countries not taking part in the effort, in which nations committed to varying amounts of carbon reduction. Every candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination has said they would bring the US back in. The US was supposed to reduce carbon emissions by 26% from 2005 levels by 2025 under the agreement. It probably won't get there with the willful sabotage of the Trump administration. But with certain states, cities and companies trying to fill the void, the US could get most of the way there, according to groups like America's Pledge, the coalition pushed by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and former California Gov. Jerry Brown. Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont was the first presidential candidate to argue that Trump, instead of declaring a national emergency at the border, should do it on the climate instead. Others, like Tom Steyer, have followed suit. This would certainly focus national attention and could free up some funds without congressional approval. The President could easily declare a goal of 100% decarbonization by a given year -- say, 2050 -- and direct his or her Cabinet secretaries to do everything in their power to meet it. At the request of automakers, the Trump administration worked to roll back fuel economy standards for cars and trucks. A different President could push things again in the other direction.5. Set a zero-emission deadline for the USThe Clean Power Plan was an Obama-era regulatory scheme that required states to meet specific carbon emission-reduction standards based on their individual energy consumption. The plan includes an incentive program for states to get a head start on meeting standards on early deployment of renewable energy and low-income energy efficiency.8. Reverse Trump's plan to speed up oil and gas pipelinesWorkers in the Bureau of Land Management worked through the partial government shutdown early this year to approve more and more applications for oil and natural gas drilling on public lands. A new administration could move in the opposite direction.13. Use the SEC to scrutinize banks and investors for climate risksMost attention for climate change goes to the energy sector, but banks and investors have an important role too. The Securities and Exchange Commission asks companies what risks climate change and new climate change regulations pose to their investments.14. Tap into growing public sentiment and work with corporationsStates and cities are addressing climate change, be it with zero-emission-vehicle goals or the regional cooperative of states in the Northeast that is trying to cap and reduce carbon emissions on its own. Corporate America is also moving on its own. It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change. As it stands right now, the federal government is not even a part of that conversation. Pretty much everyone who agrees that climate change is a problem agrees that Congress will ultimately have to address it in a big way. That means placing some kind of price on carbon. The House voted to do this in 2010, but the so-called cap-and-trade proposal didn't get a vote in the Senate and then Democrats lost control of the House for eight years.	False
643	NewsBusters	right_bias	2017-10-05	This might be a trip to discover how different animals blend into their surroundings to hide from predators, how the brain coordinates different parts of the body, or what lies deep under the sea.	However, she's more into data than storytelling, so the kids take a trip to a glacier, allowing her to tell the story of - you guessed it - climate change, which is met with a standing ovation by the audience.	has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd.	There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids, but that wasn't the worst.	In the show, Miss Frizzle takes her class on educational field trips with the help of a magical school bus that allow them to learn about things like magnets, allergies, and states of matter.	I find it hard to believe any parents were happy about this next one, though. <sep> This is what kids are getting excited about? <sep> 	New Magic School Bus to Kids: Use Clean Energy or Monsters Will Eat You The Magic School Bus is back in the new Netflix series The Magic School Bus Rides Again!  Overall, it's still a nice, fun 13-episode series like we remember from when we were kids, but with some left turns. There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids, but that wasn't the worst. That dubious honor goes to the episode that teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources. In the show, Miss Frizzle takes her class on educational field trips with the help of a magical school bus that allow them to learn about things like magnets, allergies, and states of matter. In the original series, the kids were taught by Miss Valerie Felicity Frizzle (Lily Tomlin), who is now Professor Frizzle. She hands the charge of her classroom over to her sister, Miss Fiona Frizzle (voiced by Saturday Night Live's Kate McKinnon). Most of the episodes are innocuous enough. The kids have a scientific question of some kind in the classroom, and Miss Frizzle takes them to the Magic School Bus where an incredible field trip helps them to understand. This might be a trip to discover how different animals blend into their surroundings to hide from predators, how the brain coordinates different parts of the body, or what lies deep under the sea. But episode 10, "The Tales Glaciers Tell," is the first of two questionable episodes. Miss Frizzle's student Dorothy Ann (also known as D.A.) has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd. However, she's more into data than storytelling, so the kids take a trip to a glacier, allowing her to tell the story of - you guessed it - climate change, which is met with a standing ovation by the audience. Really? This is what kids are getting excited about? I doubt it. Of course, conserving energy is a good thing and we should be kind to the earth, but this climate change hysteria is taking over. Usually, somebody will say that 97 percent of climate scientists agree that humans are causing global warming, and I was surprised that figure didn't come up in this episode. Could it be that they know how easily debunked that number is? Given the way Dorothy Ann presented man-made climate change as fact, I doubt it. This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media, as they use climate change as the universal bad-guy, so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea. I find it hard to believe any parents were happy about this next one, though. Episode 12, "Monster Power," teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources. Albert, one of the students, has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is "coming for us next for what we've done to this planet!" With the class camping in the woods, Miss Frizzle and the other students help him come up with clean energy alternatives (wind, water, etc) so they won't be eaten. Instead, Miss Frizzle could tell him that monsters aren't real, but I guess that didn't occur to her. While it makes sense to teach kids the science of pollution and about all kinds of energy (I wouldn't have minded some talk about oil in the dinosaur episode, to be honest), why would they tell kids that a monster will eat them for using the wrong energy source? I may not have the teaching credentials of Miss Frizzle, but I'm pretty sure that's not scientifically accurate. They must really hate fossil fuels as much as their friends on the left. Keeping in mind that the TV-Y rating for this series means it's for kids 2-6, I'm sure there are going to be some parents pretty irked at bedtime when kids are scared of the blot monster. Overall, this is a cute series and fun bit of nostalgia for those of us who enjoyed the original books (or TV series) as kids, but I could have done without the climate change propaganda, and telling kids that traditional energy sources attract monsters is way over the top. Can't kids just learn without an anti-scientific social agenda?	False
718	MotherJones	left_bias	2017-05-15	The other, from 2007, discussed how to survive global warming.	One, published by Newsweek, is a favorite of climate deniers.	Perhaps not surprisingly, his staff seems to share these views.	Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus: The planet is getting warmer, and humans are to blame.	In 2007, Time published a cover story titled, "The Global Warming Survival Guide."		Here's a Crazy Story About Donald Trump Falling for an Internet Hoax President Donald Trump has been a climate change denier for years, alleging that global warming is a Chinese invention and declaring that cold winter days prove that it's a hoax. Perhaps not surprisingly, his staff seems to share these views. According to Politico, Deputy National Security Advisor K.T. McFarland recently tried to get Trump riled up about climate change with a bit of fake news. McFarland reportedly slipped Trump two Time magazine cover stories. One was supposedly from the 1970s and warned about a coming ice age. The other, from 2007, discussed how to survive global warming. But there was one glaring problem: The 1970s cover was a hoax. In 2007, Time published a cover story titled, "The Global Warming Survival Guide." Sometime after that, internet hoaxers doctored the cover to instead say "How to Survive the Coming Ice Age" and alleged that it was a 1977 cover. The hoax spread quickly, and climate deniers used it to argue that in the 1970s, scientists were actually worried about global cooling—and since it didn't happen then, the public shouldn't believe warnings about global warming now. The hoax seems to have had its intended effect on Trump, who, according to Politico, "quickly got lathered up about the media's hypocrisy." A White House official defended McFarland in an interview with Politico, calling the Time hoax "fake but accurate." The White House didn't respond to a request for comment from Mother Jones. While the Time global cooling cover story never existed, it's certainly true that some media outlets, including Time, ran stories in the 70s warning about global cooling. One, published by Newsweek, is a favorite of climate deniers. Scientific American explained Newsweek's global cooling story in 2014:But global cooling was never a popular theory among scientists. Even as some news outlets were writing about it, notes Scientific American, a counter theory about a warming planet was already on the rise. In fact, a survey of peer-reviewed scientific papers from 1969 to 1975 shows that the majority of scientists predicted that carbon dioxide levels would rise, causing temperatures to rise as well. Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus: The planet is getting warmer, and humans are to blame. But this hasn't stopped climate deniers from citing the old stories as evidence that contemporary news reports about climate change shouldn't be believed. This climate denier, for example:	False
720	Vox	left_bias	2017-05-31	Last summer, the Guardian investigated Trump's coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms, with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	Trump doesn't believe in climate change, but it's going to drown Mar-a-Lago President Donald Trump has called climate change a "hoax" and a very expensive "tax" on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	And yet climate change is already imperiling Mar-a-Lago, the crown jewel of Trump's extensive real estate portfolio and his preferred location for carrying out many of his official presidential duties.	So what would a 10-foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida?		Trump doesn't believe in climate change, but it's going to drown Mar-a-Lago President Donald Trump has called climate change a "hoax" and a very expensive "tax" on American businesses that make the US less competitive. He has threatened to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord, in which countries around the world pledged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to keep temperatures from rising past the critical 2°C mark. And yet climate change is already imperiling Mar-a-Lago, the crown jewel of Trump's extensive real estate portfolio and his preferred location for carrying out many of his official presidential duties. Rising sea levels are causing more frequent and more damaging tidal floods on the Florida coast, and projections suggest that the risk to lives and property from climate change-related flooding events is only going to increase dramatically in the coming years. The National and Oceanic Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has put out a variety of different estimates of rising sea levels in Southern Florida. The more conservative finding suggests that they could jump anywhere from 3 feet by 2050 to 7 feet by 2100. But in January, the agency put out new "extreme" sea level projections — its doomsday scenario, in other words. In this scenario, we'd see a 10- to 12-foot rise in sea level in the US by 2100, which would have dramatic consequences for places like Mar-a-Lago, as you can see in the photo above. So what would a 10-foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida? Here's a satellite image of what that would look like. Large swaths of the state are submerged. Miami is entirely flooded, along with the rest of Southern Florida:There is evidence that average sea levels are already steadily rising in Southern Florida. A 2016 paper found that in the past decade, the average rate of sea-level rise had tripled from 3 millimeters a year to 9 millimeters. And overall sea levels in Southern Florida had risen about 90 millimeters, or 3.5 inches, since 2006. Of the 30 most populous US cities that would be negatively affected by extreme sea-level rise, Climate Central, a nonprofit climate science research group, found that 19 were located in Florida (circled in yellow in the chart below). Scientists don't have a great understanding of how exactly rapidly sea levels will continue to rise or the precise impact on specific areas. But new research that indicates parts of the Antarctic ice sheet may collapse in the next 100 years — and that has scientists scrambling to model more extreme scenarios. If the Antarctic ice sheet does melt, it could trigger a catastrophic 10-foot spike in sea levels and inundate major US cities like New York and Miami, displacing nearly 150 million people worldwide." t may be a lot less stable [in Antarctica] than we thought," said Ben Strauss, a vice president at Climate Central. "But the truth is we are relatively early in our scientific understanding of how the great ice sheets will respond to warming." Last summer, the Guardian investigated Trump's coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels. What they found was Mar-a-Lago was already in serious trouble. The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms, with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach. Plus, in the next 30 years, they estimated there will be 210 days a year where Mar-a-Lago will be flooded with at least a foot of water. Keren Bolter, chief scientist for Coastal Risk Consulting and the firm that analyzed Trump's properties, told the Guardian that tidal flooding in the next 30 years could partially submerge some of the club's luxurious cottages and bungalows. And perhaps even eventually render Trump's "Southern White House" uninhabitable.	False
19	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-02-22	"We hope it will serve as an analytical template going forward."	org.	LaFleur, for example, called on FERC to factor in estimates, like the controversial "social cost of carbon," for a cost-benefit analysis.	hese are decisions that impact the president's ability to make foreign policy decisions," Brouillette told TheDCNF.	e have been promoting US energy around the world and today's decision by the FERC is a very important one," DOE Deputy Secretary Dan Brouillette told The Daily Caller News Foundation in an interview.		Late-Night Deal Breaks Deadlock Over Natural Gas Exports. The Trump Administration Is Ecstatic The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) broke a two-year partisan deadlock Thursday night to approve a liquefied natural gas (LNG) export terminal in Louisiana. Top Department of Energy (DOE) officials said this was a major breakthrough that will alleviate a growing problem for U.S. energy producers — a lack of export infrastructure." e have been promoting US energy around the world and today's decision by the FERC is a very important one," DOE Deputy Secretary Dan Brouillette told The Daily Caller News Foundation in an interview. (RELATED: US Oil Output Hits 12 Million Barrel-A-Day Milestone Way Ahead Of Schedule)The Calcasieu Pass LNG export terminal is the first such project to get FERC approval in two years. Republican FERC commissioners Neil Chatterjee, the chairman and Bernard McNamee worked with Democrat Cheryl LaFleur to hash out an agreement to get her support. Chatterjee and McNamee needed LaFleur's vote to approve Calcasieu Pass, which they secured after working out a new approach to account for greenhouse gas emissions from the export facility." his is a tremendous breakthrough," DOE Under Secretary of Energy Mark Menezes told TheDCNF. "We hope it will serve as an analytical template going forward." Once complete, Calcasieu Pass terminal will export up 12 million metric tons of LNG a year. Brouillette said the project already has buyers, including in Europe, waiting for American natural gas. Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling spurred an oil and natural gas boom over the past decade, making the U.S. the world's top hydrocarbon producer. However, a limiting factor on oil and gas is the lack of export terminals and pipelines. Menezes said breaking FERC's deadlock was also an important step in helping DOE improve its own LNG terminal approval process, including "making sure there's no duplicative reviews." Getting approval to build an LNG export terminal is a long, complicated process that requires approval from multiple agencies. FERC currently has a backlog of a dozen LNG projects awaiting approval. (RELATED: Obama EPA Regulations Blamed For Closure Of 100-Year-Old Coal Plant)The Trump administration has been pushing for speedier approvals for LNG terminals, but FERC has been holding up the process amid pressure from environmental groups to factor global warming into its approval process. LaFleur, for example, called on FERC to factor in estimates, like the controversial "social cost of carbon," for a cost-benefit analysis. However, LaFleur agreed to compromise with her Republican colleagues. FERC's other Democratic commissioner Richard Glick opposed the terminal, arguing his colleagues were "deliberately ignoring the consequences that its actions have for climate change." The commission's environmental review of Calcasieu Pass found the facility would emit roughly 3.9 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions a year — about 0.07 percent of total U.S. emissions. Brouillette argued that while an individual LNG export terminal would emit greenhouse gases, it would help lower global emissions because countries want gas as an alternative to coal." o the extent that LNG is displacing coal around the world, we think the impact is going to be positive," Brouillette said. Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trump's foreign policy." hese are decisions that impact the president's ability to make foreign policy decisions," Brouillette told TheDCNF. "We get to assist Poland, we get to assist Lithuania, we get to assist the Baltic states." Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
769	Yahoo News	left_center_bias	2017-05-31	"Mr. Trump believes that because he doesn't get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them."	Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy, they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change.	The American Meteorological Society released a statement that read in part: "It is clear from extensive scientific evidence that the dominant cause of the rapid change in climate of the past half century is human-induced increases in the amount of atmospheric greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (CO ), chlorofluorocarbons, methane and nitrous oxide."	We wouldn't participate in meetings and we'd just be there as an observer," he said.	"We tried to explain that to Mr. Trump in Taormina in clear German sentences.		European Commission head says Trump doesn't understand how Paris Agreement works European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said President Trump doesn't seem to understand that he can't immediately yank the United States out of the Paris Agreement on climate change." hat's not how it works. The Americans can't just leave the climate protection agreement," Juncker said Wednesday, according to a translation from NBC News. "Mr. Trump believes that because he doesn't get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them." Reports circulated Wednesday that Trump had decided to withdraw from the international pact — which has been signed by every country in the world except Nicaragua and Syria — but as of late afternoon there was no formal announcement. Juncker, the former prime minister of Luxembourg, has been leading the European Commission, the civil service of the European Union's executive branch in Brussels, since November 2014. During a student conference on Europe's future, he explained that the United States would have to wait three to four years after the agreement took effect in November 2016 before leaving. Juncker and European Council President Donald Tusk represented the European Union at last week's Group of Seven (G7) summit in Taormina, a small town in Sicily. They met with leaders from the seven democracies with the world's most developed economies: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy, they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change. These conversations come at a particularly fraught time because Trump, who does not share his predecessor Barack Obama's commitment to clean energy, has been reviewing the United States' environmental policies. According to a translation from NBC News, Juncker said that they attempted to explain to Trump that he could not simply pull the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement because the treaty contains safeguards to prevent exactly that." o this notion, 'I am Trump, I am American, America first and I'm going to get out of it' — that won't happen," he continued. "We tried to explain that to Mr. Trump in Taormina in clear German sentences. It seems our attempt failed." He said that "the law is the law" and it must be obeyed regardless of what Trump thinks, adding somewhat sardonically that not everything in international agreements is fake news. On Wednesday morning, Axios published a report citing two sources with "direct knowledge of the decision" that Trump was planning to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement. Shortly after the news spread, Trump tweeted that he would be announcing his decision regarding the international agreement within the next few days. Later Wednesday, during a meeting with Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc of Vietnam at the White House, Trump dodged a question about whether he still thinks that climate change is a hoax. When asked if he was "leaning in a direction" concerning Paris, Trump simply said, "I'm hearing from a lot of people both ways." Many scientific organizations have released statements or reports affirming that anthropogenic climate change is real and that it could have devastating effects if actions are not taken to limit carbon dioxide emissions. The American Meteorological Society released a statement that read in part: "It is clear from extensive scientific evidence that the dominant cause of the rapid change in climate of the past half century is human-induced increases in the amount of atmospheric greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (CO ), chlorofluorocarbons, methane and nitrous oxide." Dan Bodansky, a law professor at Arizona State University and a leading climate change expert, explained that Trump could get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement two different ways: withdrawing from the Paris Agreement itself or leaving the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The text of Paris Agreement allows for countries to provide a year's notice of its intent to withdraw. But this notice cannot be submitted until three years after the agreement entered into force for that country, which happened in November 2016. "Whether the U.S. decides to pull out or not, under international law and the Paris Agreement, the withdrawal would not be effective until 2020," Bodansky told Yahoo News. Another option, which would get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement in just one year, would be to leave UNFCCC, which was an agreement brokered under former President George H.W. Bush in the early '90s. Although this would be faster, it would carry even more serious consequences. Bodansky said that leaving the UNFCCC would automatically get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement as well. "If we pulled out of both then we wouldn't be a party at all. We wouldn't participate in meetings and we'd just be there as an observer," he said. "Both of them would be viewed very negatively by other countries — by allies in Europe and elsewhere — but pulling out of the Framework Convention would be an even more drastic step." Trump goes after 'negative press covfefe' in botched midnight tweet Duck! Treasury will hit debt limit soon unless Congress votes to raise it	False
287	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-21	We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply, interacting, taking action, and so many people are very conscientious on this issue," she added.	hese achievements flow largely from technological breakthroughs in the private sector, not the heavy hand of government.	However, the China Youth Climate Action Network's Zheng Xiaowen said that Chinese youth "have their own methods."	hile many around the world are talking about reducing greenhouse gases, the U.S. continues to deliver, and today's report is further evidence of our action-oriented approach," he added.	Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday."		World's Leading Greenhouse Gas Emitter China Taps Out of Global Climate Strike Thousands gathered in cities across the globe — including London, Berlin, Tokyo, and Washington, DC — to protest anthropogenic climate change and the purported lack of urgency to address it. However, there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China — the planet's worst greenhouse gas emitter — minus a protest in Hong Kong. According to the Guardian, "No protests were authorized in China." However, the China Youth Climate Action Network's Zheng Xiaowen said that Chinese youth "have their own methods." We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply, interacting, taking action, and so many people are very conscientious on this issue," she added. Several climate change activists in D.C. decried the U.S. for its role in contributing to climate change despite the fact that the U.S. has made great strides in reducing its carbon output, seeing the "largest decline in CO2 emissions in the world for 9th time this century" in 2017. The largest increase that year came from China. According to a report released by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) last year, the U.S. reduced its greenhouse gas output by 2.7 percent during President Trump's first year in office." hanks to President Trump's regulatory reform agenda, the economy is booming, energy production is surging, and we are reducing greenhouse gas emissions from major industrial sources," EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said at the time." hese achievements flow largely from technological breakthroughs in the private sector, not the heavy hand of government. The Trump Administration has proven that federal regulations are not necessary to drive CO2 reductions," Wheeler continued." hile many around the world are talking about reducing greenhouse gases, the U.S. continues to deliver, and today's report is further evidence of our action-oriented approach," he added. Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday." eanwhile, as the West looks at options to combat climate change, we all know that China's global emissions continue to rise. For every ton of carbon dioxide reduced by the United States, China adds nearly four times as much," Kinzinger said." oday the Chinese account for 30 percent of global emissions. While some may say that the United States needs to be the leader of combating climate change, I would say that we already are," he continued." ince 2005 global emissions have increased by 20 percent, but the United States emissions have decreased by more than the next 12 emission-reducing countries combined," he added. As Breitbart News reported, China is ramping up its coal-powered energy supply "with the total of future projects now standing at 226.2 gigawatts (GW)":Despite China's blatant disregard for the calls of climate change alarmists, it has been granted permission to speak at the U.N. international climate summit next week in New York.	False
96	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-07-30	Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of America's climate-changing gases, the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning and in which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines."	It's not going to be fully ready until it begins to reflect the kind of environmental and energy issues that our people are concerned about," said Darryl Jordan, 65, the co-director of the East Michigan Environmental Action Council.	The three-word slogan surged into America's political lexicon last November when activists with the youth-led Sunrise Movement occupied then-incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office, demanding Democrats champion climate policy that actually matches the scope of the crisis.	Ahead of the march, musicians and activists took a makeshift stage in Cass Park, a historic green space where last month's record heatwave left the grass crisp and brown, and led crowds chanting "build a new economy" and "invest in our community."	The Frontline Detroit Coalition, the alliance of a dozen local environmental groups and unions who organized Tuesday's march, struck a markedly different tone.		Detroiters March For Green New Deal Ahead Of Democratic Debate DETROIT ― Theresa Landrum survived her battle with cancer. But her parents didn't. Neither did at least 10 other people who lived on her block. Such is life and death in the 48217, Michigan's most polluted ZIP code ― home to automotive plants, the state's only oil refinery and more than 8,200 mostly working-class African Americans. On Tuesday, Landrum, a retired General Motors factory worker, marched downtown with as many as 2,000 fellow Detroiters to the steps of the Fox Theatre, where 10 Democratic presidential hopefuls were scheduled to face off in the second round of primary debates. The protest marked one of the most confrontational demands for a Green New Deal in months, as local groups took up the mantle from national climate campaigners, which have shifted their efforts to focus on demanding a climate-only Democratic primary debate. Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of America's climate-changing gases, the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning and in which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines." e are being robbed and pillaged by industry," Landrum said, her voice rising to a preacher's righteous crescendo. "Then you know what we get? A few job promises, and they get to pollute as much as they want." The three-word slogan surged into America's political lexicon last November when activists with the youth-led Sunrise Movement occupied then-incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office, demanding Democrats champion climate policy that actually matches the scope of the crisis. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) took heed. In February, she and Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) introduced a resolution that outlined the core tenets of a Green New Deal. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren's growing inventory of policy proposals includes plans to decarbonize the military by 2030, halt fossil fuel leasing on public lands, and put new restrictions on businesses' ability to influence lawmakers. California Sen. Kamala Harris, the only candidate to bring up the Green New Deal in the first round of debates, co-sponsored a climate justice bill with Ocasio-Cortez this week that lays the groundwork for federal climate spending to benefit poor, minority communities who disproportionately suffer the impacts of pollution. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who has yet to release a comprehensive climate plan, has positioned himself as the standard-bearer of former President Franklin D. Roosevelt's economic ideals, and a vocal proponent of the Green New Deal movement. Climate change received a combined 15 minutes of airtime during last month's debates in Miami ― woefully insufficient given the scope of the crisis, but significant progress for an issue that was virtually ignored in the 2016 election. But because the events were held in a city threatened by rising sea levels, debate questions focused on the magnitude of the global warming crisis and the risks posed by runaway emissions. The Frontline Detroit Coalition, the alliance of a dozen local environmental groups and unions who organized Tuesday's march, struck a markedly different tone. If Miami is a city in need of salvation from rising seas, Detroit, in their vision, could be the savior. Ahead of the march, musicians and activists took a makeshift stage in Cass Park, a historic green space where last month's record heatwave left the grass crisp and brown, and led crowds chanting "build a new economy" and "invest in our community." The Green New Deal is a platform, an empty box. It's not going to be fully ready until it begins to reflect the kind of environmental and energy issues that our people are concerned about," said Darryl Jordan, 65, the co-director of the East Michigan Environmental Action Council. "We're not in a state where the differences between Democrats and Republicans are that radical." If there is poetry in demanding a Green New Deal in the city that birthed the automotive age, the city's union legacy gives the call real teeth. Powerful construction unions that depend on the fossil fuel industry for lucrative jobs have publicly opposed the Green New Deal, though the movement has garnered growing labor support, including an official endorsement from the Service Employees International Union last month.	True
708	CNN	left_bias	2017-10-10	"It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal."	"Now the public has an opportunity to weigh in, as EPA is required to accept public comment on the proposed repeal and a discussion paper on a replacement," Rhea Suh, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a statement Monday.	"The past administration was using every bit of power and authority to use the EPA to pick winners and losers and how we generate electricity in this country.	"As much as we want to see progress made with clean air and clean water, with an understanding that we can also grow jobs, we have to do so within the framework of what Congress has passed," Pruitt said.	"The EPA welcomes comment on the legal interpretation addressed in this proposed rulemaking."		EPA Administrator Pruitt announces withdrawal of Clean Power Plan While speaking in Kentucky at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Pruitt said he will sign the proposed rule repealing Obama's plan Tuesday." When you think about what that rule meant, it was about picking winners and losers. Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and losers," he said at the event. "The past administration was using every bit of power and authority to use the EPA to pick winners and losers and how we generate electricity in this country. That's wrong." Under the interpretation proposed in this notice, the CPP exceeds the EPA's statutory authority and would be repealed," the proposal reads. "The EPA welcomes comment on the legal interpretation addressed in this proposed rulemaking." The proposal also says the EPA has yet to determine whether it will create an additional rule on the regulation of greenhouse gases. first reported on the repeal proposal. first reported on the repeal proposal. Bloomberg News first reported on the repeal proposal. The Clean Power Plan requires states to meet specific carbon emission reduction standards based on their individual energy consumption. The plan also includes an incentive program for states to get a head start on meeting standards on early deployment of renewable energy and low-income energy efficiency. Under President Barack Obama, the EPA estimated the Clean Power Plan could prevent 2,700 to 6,600 premature deaths and 140,000 to 150,000 asthma attacks in children. When asked earlier this year on Fox News about the health consequences of doing away with the Clean Power Plan, Pruitt ducked the question and focused on how the plan would cost jobs. He argued the plan was bureaucratic overreach. "As much as we want to see progress made with clean air and clean water, with an understanding that we can also grow jobs, we have to do so within the framework of what Congress has passed," Pruitt said. Former EPA employees have reacted harshly to the planned repeal of the rule. Obama's EPA administrator, Gina McCarthy, called the proposal "just plain backwards." "A proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan without any time line or even a commitment to propose a rule to reduce carbon pollution, isn't a step forward, it's a wholesale retreat from EPA's legal, scientific and moral obligation to address the threats of climate change," McCarthy said in a statement Friday. Environmental advocacy groups quickly blasted Pruitt's decision, with many vowing to fight the measure in court. "Now the public has an opportunity to weigh in, as EPA is required to accept public comment on the proposed repeal and a discussion paper on a replacement," Rhea Suh, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a statement Monday. "In addition, NRDC expects to take EPA to court when the Clean Power Plan repeal is made final." When reports of the EPA's planned move began to be reported over the weekend, Environmental Defense Fund President Fred Krupp said repealing the plan without replacing it with any protections from "climate-destabilizing pollution" would fail to protect Americans from harmful pollution designated under the Clean Air Act. And Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, said Trump and Pruitt are launching "one of the most egregious attacks" on public health and climate safety. "No matter who is in the White House, the EPA is legally required to limit dangerous carbon pollution, and the Clean Power Plan is an achievable, affordable way to do that," Brune said in a Monday news release. "It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal." Former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg, whose philanthropy said it would donate $15 million toward supporting operations of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change after the Trump administration announced intentions to withdraw from the Paris climate accord, tweeted his criticism of the repeal proposal Monday. "The EPA can repeal the Clean Power Plan but not the laws of economics," Bloomberg tweeted. "This won't revive coal or stop the US from reaching our Paris goal."	False
74	redstate	right_bias	2019-05-28	She also seemed disturbed at the appearance of "casual tornadoes," though we're not exactly sure what those are, and AOC did not elaborate."	"Climate is your closet wardrobe."	"It's just the weather in D.C." In a second tweet, Maue pointed out that AOC doesn't seem to know the difference between weather and climate, and offered her an "easy analogy" so that she understood for the future."	o idea what she means with "casual tornadoes" and how this line of severe thunderstorms is proof of any "climate crisis,"" he continued.	"The odd proclamation prompted meteorologist Ryan Maue to step in and offer the young Democrat a lesson in what weather is."		Meteorologist Forced to Educate Ocasio-Cortez On the Difference Between Weather and Climate New York's democratic socialist sweetheart Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is trying very hard to sell her idea of apocalyptic climate change, or at least the side of Ocasio-Cortez that's serious about climate change ending the world in 12 years is. The other side of her thinks we're foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years. She can be very confusing. It seems, however, that she's very confused herself, specifically about how weather works. Recently Washington D.C. suffered from tornado friendly weather, pushing AOC into believing that this natural disaster is simply part of the climate change disaster sweeping the globe. She also seemed disturbed at the appearance of "casual tornadoes," though we're not exactly sure what those are, and AOC did not elaborate." he climate crisis is real y'all," Ocasio said on Instagram. "Guess we're at casual tornadoes in growing regions of the country?"The odd proclamation prompted meteorologist Ryan Maue to step in and offer the young Democrat a lesson in what weather is."  thought this was fake but it's from [Ocasio-Cortez's] Instagram story," tweeted Maue." o idea what she means with "casual tornadoes" and how this line of severe thunderstorms is proof of any "climate crisis,"" he continued. "It's just the weather in D.C." In a second tweet, Maue pointed out that AOC doesn't seem to know the difference between weather and climate, and offered her an "easy analogy" so that she understood for the future." eather is what outfit you wear heading out the door," tweeted Maue. "Climate is your closet wardrobe." Last year, climatologist Judith Curry noted that many of the world-ending weather scenarios and predictions from politicians like AOC are as good as fantasy novels, and told the Daily Caller that it's actually impossible to predict what the climate will look like over a decade out." rojections of extreme, alarming impacts are very weakly justified to borderline impossible," Curry told The Daily Caller News Foundation. Curry's latest research, put together for clients of her consulting company near the end of November, looks in detail at projections of sea level rise. Curry's ultimate conclusion: "Some of the worst-case scenarios strain credulity." "With regards to 21st century climate projections, we are dealing with deep uncertainty, and we should not be basing our policies based on the assumption that the climate will actually evolve as per predicted," Curry told TheDCNF. "Climate variability and change is a lot more complex than 'CO2 as control knob'," Curry said. "No one wants to hear this, or actually spend time understanding things," Curry said. Of course, a lot of this alarmism from Ocasio-Cortez is a weak attempt to sell her "Green New Deal," which already failed to pass through Congress with any yes votes. The point of the Green New Deal isn't necessarily to save the world but to push socialistic standards for America in everything from how we travel to how we farm. However, everyone from economists to climate scientists, to Democrat politicians have called the Green New Deal a foolish venture, and after having reviewed it personally, I can say it's a piece of legislation that's really only good enough for kindling.	False
345	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-08-04	org.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts.	It's not immediately clear how the Trump administration will handle the RFS debate moving forward.	Essentially, the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans.		EPA Released A Long-Delayed Report Showing Ethanol Hurts The Environment An extensive report from the Environmental Protection Agency found that including ethanol into the U.S. gas supply is wreaking havoc on the atmosphere and soil. In a study titled "Biofuels and the Environment: The Second Triennial Report to Congress," the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) determined that ethanol derived from corn and soybeans is causing serious harm to the environment. Water, soil and air quality were all found to be adversely affected by biofuel mandates." vidence since enactment of [the Energy Independence and Security Act] suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn, with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production," read a portion of the 159-page report. The ethanol mandate has negatively effected water quality, with greater biofuel production resulting in more harmful algae blooms and hypoxia. While most algae is harmless to water, some forms — such as the kind produced in Lake Eerie from biofuel feedstock — has emitted toxic chemicals into the water. This harmful algae can consume the oxygen in the water, a process known as hypoxia, killing other wildlife. Increased irrigation — fueled by growing demand for ethanol — has also taken a toll on the ground, with the report finding "grassland-to-annual-crop conversion negatively impacts soil quality because it increases erosion and the loss of soil nutrients." Essentially, the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans. Large-scale production of these crops is causing environmental degradation. The EPA also found that — at least in some instances — using ethanol in lieu of gasoline resulted in worse air emissions." A]ir quality modeling suggests that production and use of ethanol as fuel to displace gasoline is likely to increase such air pollutants as PM2.5, ozone, and SOx in some locations," read a section of the report pertaining to air quality. While traditional gasoline contains more CO2, ethanol-based fuels have more nitrogen oxides (NOx), which can be more harmful to human health. NOx can exacerbate asthma by causing inflammation of the respiratory airwaves, with long-term exposure resulting in decreased lung functionThe mandate in reference concerns the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), a 2005 law that requires oil refineries include a certain amount of ethanol in their fuel mix. The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts. The RFS has proven to be controversial, with oil producers deriding the mandate as costly and unneeded. Corn growers, however, support the mandate as it drives demand for the product. (RELATED: New EPA Chief Will Continue Scott Pruitt's War With The Corn Lobby)During his time leading the EPA, Scott Pruitt became an adversary of ethanol proponents after granting more RFS waivers and pushing for a rollback of the law altogether. It's not immediately clear how the Trump administration will handle the RFS debate moving forward. Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler has suggested he will continue seeking changes to the mandate, but President Donald Trump told an Iowa crowd in July that the EPA may soon allow for more ethanol to be included in gas. The EPA study, published on June 29, came after a long delay. Federal law calls for the EPA to conduct a study on the Renewable Fuel Standard every three years, but the government was four years late this go-around. The agency's previous ethanol study was published in 2011. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
4	foxnews	right_bias	2019-04-30	Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?"	O'Rourke also said that he wanted people in the fossil fuel industry to act as partners in reaching his goal."	Watters asked.	"He's a scam artist, and everybody knows it.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPHe went on to speculate that O'Rourke pushed his climate plan because he felt "guilty" about the American economy's success because "he and other liberals have not had enough input in it.		Watters on Beto's climate plan: He's a 'scam artist' who feels guilty about America's economic success "The Five" co-host Jesse Watters had some tough words for 2020 hopeful Beto O'Rourke after the former Texas representative proposed a $5 trillion climate change plan alongside the claim that the United States only had 10 years left to address the issue." If someone calls you on the phone and says you're going to die in ten years unless you give me all your money, that's a scam," Watters said. "He's a scam artist, and everybody knows it."O'Rourke asserted his controversial, 10-year prediction while appearing on MSNBC on Monday. He told host Chris Hayes that he sought to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. During that appearance, he indicated that he would have to make himself an opponent of the oil and gas industries' interests. "We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue, have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life," he said. OCASIO-CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II,' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS"So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition, I'm always going to choose the people of this country." O'Rourke also said that he wanted people in the fossil fuel industry to act as partners in reaching his goal." You have a $21 trillion U.S. economy, the fossil fuel industry runs this economy, it's created all of this wealth, revolutionized transportation, communications, industry, lifted people out of poverty," Watters said." Beto, who's done nothing except lose to [Sen.] Ted Cruz, [R-Texas], comes up and says I'm going to take $5 trillion and I'm going to reverse everything and change it all. He's no Einstein, he's no Carnegie. Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?" Watters asked. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPHe went on to speculate that O'Rourke pushed his climate plan because he felt "guilty" about the American economy's success because "he and other liberals have not had enough input in it."O'Rourke's program was an ambitious endeavor similar to Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's, D-N.Y., "Green New Deal," which many saw as too expensive and unrealistic. When Ocasio-Cortez responded to O'Rourke's plan, she said he didn't have an aggressive enough timeline.	False
212	thehill	left_center_bias	2019-02-12	The views are their own.	Policies work best when they are narrowly tailored to the behavior that they seek to alter.	Thus, if we want markets to produce more clean innovation, we should reward innovators rather than penalize polluters in the hopes that doing so will indirectly induce them to produce innovation.	It is good economics.	Of course, the effectiveness of the proposal at spurring innovation will depend on its design, the exact details of which have yet to be ironed out.		Green New Deal is good economics After years of failing to pass a carbon tax, climate hawks are now rallying behind a bold new proposal for tackling global warming. Known as the Green New Deal, this economic stimulus package for the planet promises to dramatically cut carbon emissions through government spending on clean energy jobs, technologies, and infrastructure. The main selling point of the Green New Deal has been its politics. While carbon pricing has long been touted as the most cost effective policy for reducing emissions, it has struggled to gain legislative traction. By contrast, advocates of the Green New Deal believe their proposal can build a winning coalition by reframing climate policy as a story of economic growth and opportunity.A Green New Deal is not just good politics. It is good economics. Society can combat climate change by using existing clean technologies to cut emissions today or by innovating new clean technologies to cut emissions in the future. We need both strategies to address global warming. Every second that we delay in reducing our carbon footprint imposes costs on ourselves and on countless future generations. If we want to avoid climate catastrophe, we need to make deep cuts in emissions soon. On the other hand, the challenges and costs of relying solely on current technologies to address climate change are prohibitively high. We need investments in clean innovation to make it cheaper to reduce emissions in the future. We could achieve the twin goals of slashing emissions and spurring innovation by putting a very high price on greenhouse gases. Carbon taxes can encourage industries to both reduce their footprints and develop cheaper clean technologies. However, carbon pricing by itself is not the most efficient climate policy. As we explain in a recent paper, the cheaper and faster approach for our society is to combine a moderately sized carbon tax with significant federal spending on the development and deployment of clean technologies. While carbon pricing is the most cost effective way to reduce emissions today, government subsidies are the most cost effective way to advance clean technologies tomorrow. The intuition behind all this is simple. Policies work best when they are narrowly tailored to the behavior that they seek to alter. Thus, if we want markets to produce more clean innovation, we should reward innovators rather than penalize polluters in the hopes that doing so will indirectly induce them to produce innovation. The benefits of directly encouraging clean innovation are striking. Economists have estimated our society can save more than $1.4 trillion a year if governments used a combination of taxes and subsidies, rather than taxes only, to address climate change. In short, good economics calls for the type of broad federal spending on clean innovation that the Green New Deal promises to deliver. Of course, the effectiveness of the proposal at spurring innovation will depend on its design, the exact details of which have yet to be ironed out. The package should increase funding for early stage clean energy research, as this kind of basic science is usually too risky to attract private investors. The Green New Deal should also include subsidies for the adoption and deployment of clean technologies, such as tax credits for clean energy investment and manufacturing. These types of policies that help emerging technologies scale up and mature can be powerful drivers of clean energy innovation. Critics will undoubtedly argue that we cannot afford the Green New Deal. This line of attack, however, ignores the costs of inaction. While the Green New Deal will not be cheap, its price pales in comparison to the damage that unchecked climate change will inflict on the economy. This argument also ignores the savings that will result from the push toward clean energy innovation under the Green New Deal. The development of cheaper clean technologies should more than offset the costs of the stimulus package. Opponents will also claim that the government is a bad venture capitalist, and that a Green New Deal will pour taxpayer dollars into clean energy boondoggles. While concerns about government waste are certainly real, they can be avoided through smart policy design. The government can encourage innovation without favoring particular clean technologies or companies by enacting neutral research and development tax credits. The ideal economic climate policy does include carbon pricing. But we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good. Even if the government cannot enact the best policy for cutting emissions today, it can still use the best policy for advancing clean innovation tomorrow. The Green New Deal pushes climate policy into uncharted political waters, but it does so based on sound economic theories. If we want to save the planet for the least amount of money, we need the Green New Deal, and we need it now. Quentin Karpilow is a law clerk in the federal judiciary. Zachary Liscow is an economist and a professor at Yale Law School who has served on the staff of the White House Council of Economic Advisors. The views are their own.	False
488	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-07-06	"I wasn't interested in that.	I am still not interested in that."	He's a human being, not a politician."	"There is no reason to believe that Wheeler will fix the problems left behind and put children's health ahead of his industry friends."	Welcome, pulsating black sludge," Jackson responded, in emails released under freedom of information laws.		Andrew Wheeler: a better weapon for Trump against the environment Scott Pruitt, who on Thursday resigned as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, was a firm favourite of Donald Trump. But Pruitt was plagued by scandal and faltered in carrying out the president's agenda of peeling back clean air and water regulations. His replacement is likely to be far more adept. While Pruitt was a bête noire to environmentalists, for his zeal in targeting Obama-era rules and his dismissal of climate science, his attempts at deregulation were regularly framed as rushed and clumsy as they floundered in the courts. Andrew Wheeler, Pruitt's replacement at least in the interim, could be a more effective weapon for Trump. A consummate Washington insider and a former coal lobbyist, he will likely approach his work with the same ideology as Pruitt but without the flamboyance and ethical scandals – a far more dangerous prospect for those aghast at the Trump administration's attitude to the environment." ruitt's agenda was really Trump's agenda and I think Andrew is as fully committed to advancing it as Pruitt was," Myron Ebell, who led the EPA transition team for Trump and has known Wheeler for two decades, told the Guardian." e knows much more about managing the agency and the technical side of the environmental statutes that EPA is charged with enforcing than Pruitt. Undoing [Barack] Obama's regulatory onslaught at EPA is a key part of the president's economic revival agenda, and therefore Wheeler will be a point man for Trump just as Pruitt was." For opponents of the president, the prospect is a daunting one. "Scott Pruitt was the most scandal-plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption," said Christy Goldfuss, an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress. "There is no reason to believe that Wheeler will fix the problems left behind and put children's health ahead of his industry friends." Confirmed by the Senate as deputy EPA administrator in April, Wheeler is well versed in the machinations of the federal government. He spent four years at the EPA's office of pollution prevention in the Bush and Clinton administrators before working for Senator James Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican whose vocal rejection of climate change science involved theatrics such as bringing a snowball on to the Senate floor. Wheeler then became a lobbyist at Faegre Baker Daniels, where he represented Murray Energy, a major coal company, until August 2017. The firm put to Trump a wish list of environmental rollbacks; Wheeler helped in its attempts to fight limits on toxic emissions such as mercury. While working for Marco Rubio's presidential campaign in February 2016, Wheeler wrote a now-deleted Facebook post in which he called Trump a "PR person" and "a bully", which he said should "alone should disqualify him from the White House". That has not hindered his rise in the Trump administration. Shortly after his nomination in October, Wheeler sent an email to Ryan Jackson, Pruitt's chief of staff, with a link to an article by the satirical website the Onion that was headlined: "EPA Promotes Pulsating Black Sludge to Deputy Director." Welcome, pulsating black sludge," Jackson responded, in emails released under freedom of information laws. "I guess I'm going to have to get the cleaning crews to come in more often." Wheeler insisted he didn't want Pruitt's job. "I could have put my hat in the ring for the administrator," he said in June. "I wasn't interested in that. I am still not interested in that." Now that he is in the role he said he didn't covet, he will be tasked with completing the job of dismantling environmental and climate regulations. Pruitt went about it enthusiastically but ran into legal action launched by states such as New York and California, as well as environmental groups. Pruitt's attempt to halt restrictions on emissions of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, was stymied by the courts, as were proposed delays to stricter limits of lead in paint and hazy ozone in urban areas. Trump's EPA has also had difficulty in coming up with robust reasons why fuel efficiency rules for cars should be watered down, or what will replace the clean power plan, given that the agency is legally obliged to force down greenhouse gas emissions. Wheeler, with his knowledge of the rule-making process, will help manage such reversals while avoiding headlines over $1,500 fountain pens, Trump Hotel mattresses or Chick-fil-A franchises." e is low key and likes to keep a low profile," Ebell said. "He may have to do more public speaking than he wants to."A senior EPA official who did not wish to be named said: "I think it will be night and day with Wheeler, or at least night and late afternoon. He will talk to us. He's a human being, not a politician." Wheeler is likely to maintain Pruitt's close ties to industry, however. Under Trump, the fossil fuel industry has wielded unusual influence over the agency that supposedly regulates it and beleaguered staff fret that its public health mission is at risk of being buried." ruitt's removal is just the first step in restoring a strong EPA that gets back to its mission to protect public health and our environment," said Carol Browner, a long-serving EPA chief in Bill Clinton's administration. "Congress must ensure the next EPA administrator is not another industry insider."	False
259	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-11-29	The host asked Warren a listener question: name the "specific steps" she has taken in her campaign "to ensure that your campaign's environmental impact is limited as possible."	Jay Inslee's (D) climate change proposals in recent months.	Think about that, three things, 70 percent reduction," she added.	e need systemic change.	ll those with hopes and dreams who cherish the future are invited to gather in the shadow of the Halls of Congress.		Elizabeth Warren Praises Black Friday Climate Change Protesters: 'Stay Strong in this Fight!' Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) on Friday praised the climate change activists who are striking on Black Friday, urging them to "stay strong in this fight!"Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate "crisis" on the biggest shopping day of the year, disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago, Illinois, and holding a "Black Friday Funeral For Future" in the nation's capital:Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts." limate change is an existential threat, and it's going to take a grassroots movement ready to fight for big, structural change to defeat it," Warren wrote. "I'm standing with the young activists on #ClimateStrike today—stay strong in this fight!":While protests, indeed, broke out across the globe, the protest in D.C. featured a funeral procession to "draw attention to the crisis and show that business, as usual, can not continue." We'll gather on the Southeast lawn of the Capitol to eulogize and mourn all that has been lost and all that is threatened by the climate crisis," the event's description reads." ll those with hopes and dreams who cherish the future are invited to gather in the shadow of the Halls of Congress. The ceremonial closed-casket funeral will conclude with a funeral procession through the streets of Washington, DC," it added, quoting activists who called petroleum a "plague" and the "black death of our generation." We're bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death," 17-year-old organizer Maddie Graham said." e need systemic change. Congress has been feeding our fossil fuel addiction," Graham added. "They know they are killing our future, but they won't take action to save it." Meanwhile, Warren has attempted to channel Gov. Jay Inslee's (D) climate change proposals in recent months. Warren said during an interview with New Hampshire Public Radio in October:"We do those three things, we cut carbon emission in our country by 70 percent. Think about that, three things, 70 percent reduction," she added. The host asked Warren a listener question: name the "specific steps" she has taken in her campaign "to ensure that your campaign's environmental impact is limited as possible." Warren did not go into detail but claimed that she "mostly" flies commercial." o I've mostly been flying commercial," Warren said." t's everything from the kind of car we drive and down to, do we purchase offsets? Can we make that work s a way to try to reduce the footprint," she added:	False
486	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-12-10	I can't believe they are putting profits over the planet, and profits over people."	Several campaigners read statements.	None of the panelists would be drawn on the study, but Griffith spoke out against "alarmism" that, he claimed, displaced pragmatic solutions to address environmental concerns with prescriptive regulations that put jobs at risk and raised costs for consumers.	They talk about the life cycle of coal, I talk about it as a death march.	"To achieve economic growth and eradicate poverty, all energy uses are important and they will be utilised unapologetically," he said.		Protesters disrupt US panel's fossil fuels pitch at climate talks A Trump administration presentation extolling the virtues of fossil fuels at the UN climate talks in Poland has been met with guffaws of laughter and chants of "Shame on you". Monday's protest came during a panel discussion by the official US delegation, which used its only public appearance to promote the "unapologetic utilisation" of coal, oil and gas. Although these industries are the main source of the carbon emissions that are causing global warming, the speakers boasted the US would expand production for the sake of global energy security and planned a new fleet of coal plants with technology it hoped to export to other countries. The event featured prominent cheerleaders for fossil fuels and nuclear power, including Wells Griffith, Donald Trump's adviser on global energy and climate, Steve Winberg, the assistant secretary for fossil energy at the energy department, and Rich Powell, the executive director of the ClearPath Foundation, a non-profit organisation focused on "conservative clean energy". The only non-American was Patrick Suckling, the ambassador for the environment in Australia's coal-enthusiast government. None of the US participants mentioned climate change or global warming, focusing instead of "innovation and entrepreneurship" in the technological development of nuclear power, "clean coal" and carbon capture and storage. Ten minutes into Griffith's opening speech, he was interrupted by a sudden, sustained, loud volley of laughter by several dozen protesters that was then followed by a single shout of "It's not funny", and then a series of chants of "Keep it in the ground" and "Shame on you". Several campaigners read statements. "There is no such thing as clean coal. Coal is deadly from the beginning to the end. They talk about the life cycle of coal, I talk about it as a death march. My father died of black lung, and I am in this struggle with others whose fathers and husbands are dying of black lung right now," said Teri Blanton of Kentuckians for the Commonwealth, which represents Appalachian coal workers in North America. After the protesters were led away by security guards, Griffiths said: "In the US our policy is not to keep it in the ground, but to use it as cleanly and efficiently as possible". This statement was contradicted by climate analysts, who noted the US environment agency estimates that 1,400 more deaths per year will result from Trump's proposal to replace the Clean Power Act." t's ludicrous for Trump officials to claim that they want to clean up fossil fuels, while dismantling standards that would do just that," said Dan Lashof, the director of the World Resources Institute. "Since taking office, this administration has proposed to roll back measures to cut methane leaks from oil and gas operations, made it easier for companies to dump coal ash into drinking water, and just days ago proposed easing carbon pollution rules for new coal-fired power plants." Griffith boasted the US had the largest coal reserves in the world and iwas producing more petroleum than ever. "To achieve economic growth and eradicate poverty, all energy uses are important and they will be utilised unapologetically," he said. Echoing a claim often made by Trump, Griffiths said the US would not be subject to agreements that hamstrung domestic growth, while allowing China to operate with high emissions. This was the second consecutive year that the Trump team was heckled after promoting fossil fuels and nuclear power at the climate talks, underscoring how the US position has shifted since the president took power in 2017. The US was a key player in forging the Paris agreement in 2015, but its standing has steadily eroded since. In 2017, Trump announced he would pull the US out of the global accord. This year, his representatives have taken a still more destructive stance by aligning with Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to try to downgrade a key report by the world's scientists that warned of the dangers of global warming moving beyond 1.5C above pre-industrial levels. None of the panelists would be drawn on the study, but Griffith spoke out against "alarmism" that, he claimed, displaced pragmatic solutions to address environmental concerns with prescriptive regulations that put jobs at risk and raised costs for consumers. In fact, scientists say their forecasts about climate impacts have been too conservative, while economists say the shift to renewables has resulted in cheaper energy for many users. Winberg said the US government was planning to support a new fleet of small, modular coal plants that he claimed would be energy-efficient and have near-zero emissions if combined with carbon capture technology. After initial development in the US, he said they could be exported to other countries. "They offer opportunity for developing nations to access tomorrow's coal technology to improve energy security," he said. He also proposed more pipelines to oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico. Despite this public commitment, the US use of coal is declining because renewables are cheaper, according to Nathaniel Keohane, the senior vice-president for the Environmental Defense Fund nonprofit group." rump is playing politics, but it's not changing the facts on the ground," he said. "Coal usage in the US just hit a 39-year low. If we really want to protect our economy, we'll move aggressively toward 100% clean energy." An alternative, non-official US delegation has backed a faster transition to renewables. Made up of city- and state-level governments, business executives and religious leaders, the "We're still in" group is staging dozens of events in a bid to show action is still possible without White House support. Nonetheless, many observers at the official US panel were ashamed at the position of their federal government. "I was completely embarrassed to be an American", said Leo McNeil Woodberry of the Climate Action Network. "Everything they proposed was absolutely wrong. I can't believe they are putting profits over the planet, and profits over people."	True
632	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-05	"This proposal goes one step further by shrinking the overall size of government and streamlining the regulatory state."	The Washington Post published a story on Tuesday citing two Trump administration officials who said a carbon tax and value added tax, or VAT, were under consideration as part of a broader tax reform plan.	For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The meeting sparked speculation that the White House was considering a carbon tax as part of a broader tax reform plan.		White House Shoots Down Carbon Tax Rumors In The Press, Again The White House shot down rumors Tuesday that administration officials were considering a tax on carbon dioxide emissions. The Washington Post published a story on Tuesday citing two Trump administration officials who said a carbon tax and value added tax, or VAT, were under consideration as part of a broader tax reform plan. But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials, marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors." s we have said many times, the President's team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the President's plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986," deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPo's story." s of now, neither a carbon tax nor a VAT are under consideration," Walters said. Walters told reporters in March the Trump administration "is not considering a carbon tax" after press secretary Sean Spicer waffled on the question. White House officials met with a group of Republicans who back a carbon tax in early February. Spicer did not respond to a request for comment.A small group of Republicans have been pushing a carbon tax for years, arguing it's more efficient than federal regulations and could be used to offset revenue losses from reductions in tax rates. Most recently, old guard Republicans on the Climate Leadership Council (CLC) met with White House officials to pitch a carbon tax that would start at $40 per ton and rise over the years. CLC says the tax could replace federal regulations and the revenues could be given back to Americans in the form of "dividends." Many carbon tax proposals are revenue-neutral," reads the Council's plan. "This proposal goes one step further by shrinking the overall size of government and streamlining the regulatory state." The meeting sparked speculation that the White House was considering a carbon tax as part of a broader tax reform plan. Many carbon tax plans claim to raise $1 trillion over ten years. The White House has shot down such speculation, but some administration officials seem intent on telling media outlets a carbon tax is still being considered. Most Republicans don't buy into a carbon tax. They argue it's not very conservative to back what would essentially amount to a tax on energy, which would effectively raise the price of all goods and services. President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administration's "social cost of carbon" estimate. Trump signed an executive order in late March rescinding the Obama administration's "social cost of carbon" estimate. Trump also ordered the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to review and possibly rescind the Clean Power Plan — the cornerstone of the former administration's global warming agenda. Conservative activists point out there's no deal to be made on trading federal environmental regulations for a carbon tax since Trump's already promised to roll back 75 percent of federal rules." f the Trump Administration were to endorse this idea, they would not only be breaking a campaign commitment, but would essentially be negotiating against themselves on regulations," said Tom Pyle, president of the American Energy Alliance and former member of Trump's transition team. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
843	Daily Mail	questionable_source	2017-09-12	'Not the cause of it, but the things that we observe.	'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced,' Pruitt said.	'But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red-versus-blue divide.	Of course the scientific community, as the New York Times put it, believes that 'drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake.	'The United States is one of the best in the world at doing this, we want to continue to do that, but right now the administration is focused on the recovery and the relief efforts and as Tom [Bossert] said a few minutes ago we'll look at that analysis once we get through the coming days and focus on the recovery and relief and saving-life effort,' Huckabee Sanders added.		WH won't say if climate change responsible for hurricanes Trump administration officials are keeping their lips sealed on whether they believe there are connections between the two Category 4 hurricanes that came barreling at the United States in recent weeks – Harvey and Irma – and climate change. When Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked about a link Monday she touted the country's environmental record and moved on. When Homeland Security Advisor Tom Bossert was asked, as he preceded Huckabee Sanders in the briefing, he wouldn't talk about climate change's cause.'I will tell you that we continue to take seriously the climate change,' he said. 'Not the cause of it, but the things that we observe.''Causality is something outside my ability to analyze right now,' Bossert also added. When President Trump was asked about it Sunday, returning home to the White House from Camp David, he simply ignored the reporter's query and walked inside. Climate scientists largely agree that the oceans are heating up, leading to larger, scarier hurricanes. At Monday's briefing, Huckabee Sanders dismissed a climate change question, noting that Trump had addressed the issue previously of whether he thought it was man-made. In the past Trump has suggested climate change was a hoax created by the Chinese to choke American industry. In June he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate accord. Huckabee Sanders was also asked if Trump was re-thinking that decision now.'I'm not sure, specifically, on the Paris climate deal, but as he said at the time the goal is to always do the very best when taking care of the environment and taking proper steps,' Huckabee Sanders replied.'The United States is one of the best in the world at doing this, we want to continue to do that, but right now the administration is focused on the recovery and the relief efforts and as Tom [Bossert] said a few minutes ago we'll look at that analysis once we get through the coming days and focus on the recovery and relief and saving-life effort,' Huckabee Sanders added. Bossert had suggested that the hurricanes be studied, though also pointed out the cyclical nature of the seasons.'And I think the scientists for the forecast on this particular one, they were dead on that this would be a stronger, more powerful hurricane season with slightly more than average large storms making landfall in the United States,' he said.'So we'll have to do a larger trend analysis at a later date,' Bossert added. The Environmental Protection Agency's Scott Pruitt went one step further when asked about climate change Friday, suggesting that it wasn't appropriate.'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced,' Pruitt said. Of course the scientific community, as the New York Times put it, believes that 'drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake.'But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red-versus-blue divide. And while it's primarily Republicans who won't touch the global warming third rail, that doesn't always hold true. On Sunday, Sen. John McCain, R-Fla., who has preached bipartisanship in recent months on the heels of his cancer diagnosis, told CNN's Jake Tapper that he didn't know why his Republican colleagues were denying climate change, adding that it was 'time to sit down.''We have to understand that the climate may be changing and we can take common sense measures which will not harm the American people,' McCain argued.	False
470	politicususa	left_bias	2018-09-03	It will also greatly increase the number of people who get sick with serious illnesses such as heart and lung problems.	At his public announcement Trump said "I'm getting rid of some of these ridiculous rules and regulations, which are killing our companies … and our jobs."	Vivian Stockman of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition was protesting outside Trump's rally."	It would have increased federal regulation of emissions from the nation's electrical grid and broadly promoted natural gas, solar power and other cleaner energy.	Meanwhile, our people are being poisoned," she said.		Trump's New Pollution Rules Will Kill Off His Own Supporters President Donald Trump picked West Virginia to announce his plan to reduce pollution controls on coal-fired power plants, which is no surprise. West Virginia loves coal, and coal miners love Trump, but what both of them may not love is the fact that a reduction in pollution controls is going to greatly increase the number of people who die prematurely from pollution created by burning coal. It will also greatly increase the number of people who get sick with serious illnesses such as heart and lung problems. When he made his announcement somehow Trump left out those details of the life-threatening side-effects of using coal to create electrical energy. Even though they will be getting sick and dying at higher rates, it is not expected that Trump's actions will reduce his popularity among West Virginians. An analysis done by his own Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) concludes that the rollback of Obama-era pollution controls will lead to many more people dying and suffering health problems that they otherwise would not have. Clean-air controls since the 1980's stopped the columns of black soot that used to rise from coal smokestacks in the region. The clean air rules reduced the number of people dying from coal-fired power plants substantially. Technology has changed, and now pollutants rise from smokestacks as gases before solidifying into invisible particles small enough to pass through lungs and into bloodstreams. An EPA analysis says those pollutants would increase under Trump's plan, when compared to what would happen under the Obama rules. This will result in many thousands of more heart attacks, asthma problems and other illnesses than would have happened without Trump's new rules. The EPA says up to 1,500 more people will die each year under Trump's plan. And the areas that will be hit the hardest are in Trump country — the coal mining regions of West Virginia. There could be dozens of new deaths and hundreds of new serious illnesses each year because of Trump's plan. Obama's Clean Power Plan targeted climate-changing carbon dioxide and would have curbed harmful emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants from the coal-fired power plants. It would have increased federal regulation of emissions from the nation's electrical grid and broadly promoted natural gas, solar power and other cleaner energy. Trump's Affordable Clean Energy program will dismantle President Barack Obama's 2015 Clean Power Plan which has not yet been implemented due to court battles. Trump's plan will give up much of the federal oversight of existing coal-fired power plants. Not only that, but the government will no longer promote cleaner energy. Individual states will decide how much to regulate coal power plants in their own states. At his public announcement Trump said "I'm getting rid of some of these ridiculous rules and regulations, which are killing our companies … and our jobs." There was no mention of the increases in harmful emissions that would result, compared to the Obama plan, or the health risks. In West Virginia, coal is popular, and politicians who support coal get elected. Vivian Stockman of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition was protesting outside Trump's rally." ur state is beholden to coal. Our politicians are beholden to coal. Meanwhile, our people are being poisoned," she said.	True
50	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-10-31	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPCorrection: A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	"There's no shortage of ideas about how this happens, but it's not quite clear how they all fit together."	The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience.	ne key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages," University of Chicago professor and the study's co-author, Malte Jansen, said in a statement.		Explosion in Antarctic sea ice levels may cause another ice age? Upside-down "rivers" of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up, leading to a rise in sea levels. A new study suggests that, in the past, increases in Antarctic sea ice in colder climates may have contributed to ice ages. Using computer simulations, the research looked at past changes during the glacial periods and noted that previous increases in sea ice levels may have significantly altered the circulation of the ocean, which led to a reverse greenhouse effect as carbon dioxide levels in the ocean increased and levels in the air decreased." ne key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages," University of Chicago professor and the study's co-author, Malte Jansen, said in a statement. "We are pretty confident that the carbon balance between the atmosphere and ocean must have changed, but we don't quite know how or why." ANTARCTICA'S ICE SHEETS CONTAIN RADIOACTIVE CHLORINE GAS 60 YEARS AFTER NUCLEAR TESTS, STUDY SAYSThe last major ice age ended at the end of the Pleistocene epoch, about 11,700 years ago, as glaciers have periodically grown and then gotten smaller. Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling, but additional factors have likely played a part, Jensen added." he most plausible explanation is that there was some change in how carbon was divided between the atmosphere and the ocean," Jansen continued. "There's no shortage of ideas about how this happens, but it's not quite clear how they all fit together." Researchers also believe a mini-ice age may have occurred roughly 12,800 years ago. It likely stems from an asteroid impact that "rocked the Northern Hemisphere" and led to the Younger Dryas climate event. Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica "plays a key role in ocean circulation" due to the deep waters in the region, leading it to have "outsize[d] consequences." AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING, NEW STUDY FINDS"What this suggests is that it's a feedback loop," said the study's lead author, Alice Marzocchi. "As the temperature drops, less carbon is released into the atmosphere, which triggers more cooling." What surprised me is how much of this increased storage can be attributed to physical changes alone, with Antarctic sea-ice cover being the key player," Marzocchi added, noting that future study of the ocean and the role it plays in the carbon cycle can help simulate "future environmental change." The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPCorrection: A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events. It was only about past events.	False
53	foxnews	right_bias	2019-02-05	"My personal view is, that undermines the credibility of the effort."	"I understand the value of aspirational goals," Bledsoe said.	Details of the letter were first published by Bloomberg.	ANALYSIS: GREEN NEW DEAL IS MOST RADICAL LEGISLATION IN DECADESThrough it all, the Green New Deal would additionally "promote justice and equity by preventing current and repairing historic oppression to frontline and vulnerable communities," according to Ocasio-Cortez.	On Twitter Monday, Ocasio-Cortez reposted a claim from one of her advisers, Robert Hockett, arguing that "in this case, size matters" and that "the problems the Green New Deal addresses require solutions where bigger is better, imperative, and paraodixcally, more affordable."		'Green New Deal' details emerge, as Ocasio-Cortez preps big reveal of WW2-level mobilization New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez on Monday unveiled new details on the so-called "Green New Deal" she plans to introduce in a matter of days, as she worked behind-the-scenes to rally congressional support for the proposal that could cost as much as $7 trillion. Ocasio-Cortez, who is set to unveil the plan with Massachusetts Democratic Sen. Ed Markey, told her fellow representatives in a letter that the Green New Deal calls for a "national, social, industrial and economic mobilization at a scale not seen since World War II." Next week, we plan to release a resolution that outlines the scope and scale of the Green New Deal," Ocasio-Cortez said in the letter, adding that the country's near-total economic transformation should take approximately ten years. To raise awareness for the measure, Markey announced Monday he had invited Varshini Prakash, the co-founder of the Sunrise Movement environmentalist group, to be his guest at President Trump's State of the Union address Tuesday night. (Several other Democrats announced guests apparently intended to highlight their opposition to various Trump administration policies, while Trump himself extended invites to the family of a couple allegedly murdered by an illegal immigrant and a child bullied at school for having the last name "Trump.")The Green New Deal proposal would lead to national net-zero greenhouse gas emissions, according to Ocasio-Cortez's letter, "through a fair and just transition for all communities and workers," while also generating millions of "good, high-wage jobs." Details of the letter were first published by Bloomberg. ANALYSIS: GREEN NEW DEAL IS MOST RADICAL LEGISLATION IN DECADESThrough it all, the Green New Deal would additionally "promote justice and equity by preventing current and repairing historic oppression to frontline and vulnerable communities," according to Ocasio-Cortez. On Twitter Monday, Ocasio-Cortez reposted a claim from one of her advisers, Robert Hockett, arguing that "in this case, size matters" and that "the problems the Green New Deal addresses require solutions where bigger is better, imperative, and paraodixcally, more affordable." Hockett is a lawyer and law professor, and is not an expert in environmental policy. Several analysts, meanwhile, have cautioned that the liberal firebrand is in over her head, even though the as-yet vague and uncertain details about the Green New Deal render a precise calculation impossible at the moment. Physicist Christopher Clack told The Hill that the cost would easily be into the trillions." t's a daunting task, and I'm not sure that the authors of the Green New Deal fully comprehend how much they'll need," Clack said. Institute for Energy Research president Tom Pyle was more blunt: "One hundred percent renewable energy defies the laws of physics. It would be impossible to achieve." And Paul Bledsoe, a strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute, said progressives were overcompensating. "I understand the value of aspirational goals," Bledsoe said. "My personal view is, that undermines the credibility of the effort." Nevertheless, approximately 70 Democratic lawmakers have so far tentatively endorsed a Green New Deal plan, including Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and California Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris. House speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has vowed to address climate change, has not publicly signed onto the plan, even though scores of progressive activists -- joined by Ocasio-Cortez -- staged a sit-in at her House office late last year, demanding action on the climate. While there is no legislative text yet available for the Markey/Ocasio-Cortez proposal, a draft circulated by Ocasio-Cortez last week called for a committee to be formed to create a plan, and lays out a framework that includes eliminating greenhouse gas emissions from manufacturing and agriculture, while "dramatically" expanding energy sources to meet 100 percent of power demand through renewable sources. To cover what would presumably be a gargantuan cost, it envisions financing by "the federal government, using a combination of the Federal Reserve, a new public bank or system of regional and specialized public banks, public venture funds and such other vehicles or structures that the select committee deems appropriate, in order to ensure that interest and other investment returns generated from public investments made in connection with the plan will be returned to the treasury, reduce taxpayer burden and allow for more investment." As it stands, any such proposal would be almost certainly dead on arrival in the Republican-controlled Senate, and also possibly the House -- where it is not clear if a majority of Democrats would back a plan. Even if Congress managed to pass a version of the Green New Deal, the White House could veto the legislation, and a two-thirds majority in both the House of Representatives and the Senate would be needed to override the veto. The Trump administration has made clear it would not accept Ocasio-Cortez's proposals. In January, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders derided Ocasio-Cortez's recent claim that the world will end in 12 years due to climate change, and suggested the Trump administration has little need for the progressive firebrand's thoughts in general. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP"I don't think we're going to listen to [Ocasio-Cortez] on much of anything -- particularly not on matters we're gonna leave in the hands of a much, much higher authority -- and certainly, not listen to the freshman congresswoman on when the world may end," Sanders told Fox News' "Hannity." Speaking at an event commemorating Martin Luther King Day that month, Ocasio-Cortez asserted that climate change constituted "our World War II" and added: "Millennials and people, you know, Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and we're like: 'The world is gonna end in 12 years if we don't address climate change and your biggest issue is, how are we gonna pay for it?'"	False
157	shareblue	left_bias	2019-04-15	Published with permission of The American Independent.	Climate change is real.	Just because our scientists publish something in a journal doesn't mean that that's agency policy or all the other scientists at the agency agree with that particular study," Wheeler told Reuters.	The study, produced by EPA scientists and published in the journal Nature Climate Change, concluded that climate change will affect 22 major sectors in the United States, including human health, infrastructure, and agriculture — and that the damages in some sectors are "estimated to range in the hundreds of billions of US dollars annually by the end of the century" if we do nothing and allow carbon emissions to remain high.	It is a threat to America and to all of humanity.		Trump's EPA chief dismisses climate study, then admits he hasn't read it Trump's recently installed EPA chief dismissed a study from his own department's scientists about the dangers of climate change — and then admitted he never even read the study in the first place. The study, produced by EPA scientists and published in the journal Nature Climate Change, concluded that climate change will affect 22 major sectors in the United States, including human health, infrastructure, and agriculture — and that the damages in some sectors are "estimated to range in the hundreds of billions of US dollars annually by the end of the century" if we do nothing and allow carbon emissions to remain high. But EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler — a former coal lobbyist and a pro-pollution apologist — doesn't care." Just because our scientists publish something in a journal doesn't mean that that's agency policy or all the other scientists at the agency agree with that particular study," Wheeler told Reuters. But Wheeler's quick dismissal of the report was followed up by an admission that he had no idea what it actually said."I have not read that article, I just saw a news a clip about it, but I haven't read it and I haven't talked to the scientist that wrote it," Wheeler said. Wheeler was appointed to head the EPA after Trump's first scandal-plagued EPA chief, Scott Pruitt, was ousted. And Wheeler's approach — ignoring science in favor of industry and pollution — is a perfect reflection of Trump's shameful approach to climate issues. The administration and its officials regularly disregard the scientific consensus about the harms of climate change in order to justify rolling back regulations and trashing initiatives designed to make the world cleaner and safer. Trump himself once infamously promoted the false conspiracy theory that climate change is a hoax from the Chinese government. Currently, Trump is trying to create a senior-level government panel that would oppose the scientific facts of climate change and instead promote baseless propaganda from pro-pollution crackpots. Most U.S. government agencies are refusing to participate in the project. However, Trump is still receiving plenty of help from congressional Republicans who refuse to take the climate crisis seriously. Senate Republicans have relentlessly made false and disingenuous attacks on the Green New Deal, a sweeping Democratic proposal to help stop climate change before it's too late while also creating jobs and protecting vulnerable communities. And in the House, Rep. Thomas Massie (R-KY) made a viral fool of himself by attacking former Secretary of State John Kerry after he tried to raise concerns about how climate change would harm national security. Climate change is real. It is a threat to America and to all of humanity. But Trump and his fellow Republicans refuse to acknowledge reality — and they certainly can't be bothered to read scientific reports about it. Published with permission of The American Independent.	False
184	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2019-09-06	It's always been this country, and this country that leads — just like you reminded people last Thursday — the greatness of America, the innovation of America.	The varied standards mean automakers have had to make extra effort in either making two types of cars or manufacturing them all in accordance with the higher California standards.	You know, for too long, there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection," Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change.	Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law, we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers," the letter added.	"That's a false choice, and it's one that you've talked about, Mr. President.		Trump administration challenges California on fuel economy standards The Trump administration is challenging California over the state's new automotive emissions and fuel economy "framework" agreement with automakers, insisting setting such standards is the federal government's role. Lawyers at the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Transportation on Friday sent a letter to the chairman of the California Air Resources Board, following California's July "framework" agreement with Ford, Volkswagen, Honda and BMW to abide by certain new greenhouse gas emissions standards." The purpose of this letter is to put California on notice that this framework agreement appears to be inconsistent with federal law," the letter said. "Congress has squarely vested the authority to set fuel economy standards for new motor vehicles, and nationwide standards for GHG vehicle emissions, with the federal government, not with California or any other state." Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law, we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers," the letter added. California had imposed stricter fuel economy and emissions standards long before July, and some of the state's laws were enacted before the Clean Air Act. Congress granted a waiver to allow California to enact its own standards, and a dozen other states also adopted California's standards. The varied standards mean automakers have had to make extra effort in either making two types of cars or manufacturing them all in accordance with the higher California standards. President Trump has pushed for months to weaken Obama-era mileage standards nationwide. Those standards were designed to make cars more fuel efficient and reduce pollution. The administration moves to rescind California's authority are likely to prompt legal battles. When President George W. Bush challenged California's greenhouse gas emissions and mileage-setting ability, California fought it in the courts. The Obama administration subsequently dropped the Bush effort. The Trump administration has argued that the extra expense to comply with the emissions requirements will raise the price of new cars, making them unaffordable and depriving buyers of new safety technology. Many experts, including former EPA engineers, have challenged the administration's safety assertion. Mr. Trump has long advocated for the auto industry, and his administration has emphasized that environmental concerns cannot trump economic considerations." You know, for too long, there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection," Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change. "That's a false choice, and it's one that you've talked about, Mr. President.  It's always been this country, and this country that leads — just like you reminded people last Thursday — the greatness of America, the innovation of America.  And the future of this world will rely greatly upon America and this administration."	False
661	CNN	left_bias	2017-04-20	The NAACP presented Pruitt with a list of demands, including a call for an executive order that would include a greater commitment to communities like East Chicago.	Those demands include: Oversight of East Chicago's ongoing attempts to improve its corrosion control treatment; expanded blood-lead level testing of children under age 7; bottled water and home water filtration systems to residents throughout the city and testing the city's drinking water to determine the extent of the contamination.	The Agency's press release quoted Pruitt saying: "I'm focused on getting EPA back to the basics of protecting human health and the environment, and one of my top priorities is delivering real results for the people of East Chicago.'	"We need them to commit to adjusting cleanup plan for the site.	That includes financial help to make sure that happens. "		EPA head visits community famous for lead contamination The people who live there are at risk of lead contamination at every turn. It's in their drinking water and it's in their soil. More than one thousand people were forced to evacuate, according to Debbie Chizewer at Northwestern Law School, who has worked very closely with the affected residents. A local school was shut down and a public housing complex was also evacuated after soil tests showed lead and arsenic contamination levels 228 times the amount the Environmental Protection Agency considers potentially hazardous to children. It was the first superfund site EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has visited -- making a trip there Wednesday -- and the agency said he was the first administrator to visit this particular site. Pruitt visited "to discuss cleanup and hear directly from East Chicago residents affected by contamination in their community," the agency said in a press release. At a press conference, local officials praised Pruitt for visiting the site. The community is what's a called a legacy contamination site. It was listed on the "National Priorities List" of the worst contaminated hazardous waste sites in the country in 2009. The site includes part of the former USS Lead facility along with nearby commercial, municipal and residential areas, including the West Calumet public housing complex. Barbara Bolling-Williams, state president of the Indiana branch of the NAACP, said she is cautiously optimistic following Pruitt's visit, but added that his visit comes with the threat of "a skinnier EPA budget, fewer regulations -- and rumors Chicago's regional EPA office could be shut down looms in the background." The Trump administration's proposed budget calls for a 31% cut to the budget, including cuts to the agency's environmental justice program. The program is intended to support poor, often minority communities with severe environmental challenges. One week ago, the local chapter of the NAACP said it invited Pruitt to a roundtable discussion on environmental justice, which happened Wednesday morning. In attendance were residents, NAACP national President Cornell Williams Brooks and community members. Pruitt skipped that event, and instead invited a group to a meeting of his own at a local school that was shut down as a result of the lead contamination in the community. Bolling-Williams, who was invited to Pruitt's meeting, said: "Pruitt listened to all of our concerns but he did not offer any solutions." She said her organization wants to see the EPA do more to protect the East Chicago community. The NAACP presented Pruitt with a list of demands, including a call for an executive order that would include a greater commitment to communities like East Chicago. "We need them to commit to adjusting cleanup plan for the site. Instead of digging up two feet of contaminated soil for disposal, digging up eight feet. We want that soil to be disposed of properly so as not to cause further contamination, we want continued testing of the soil and ground water in this area and a commitment to ensure the residents exposed to the lead get the physical and mental health care they need for the rest of their life. That includes financial help to make sure that happens. " EPA spokesman J.P. Freire told CNN in an email: "Forget about the politics. Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results." In its press release, the agency laid out the accomplishments of its cleanup effort under Pruitt: East Chicago is receiving $16.5 million in EPA State Revolving Fund (SRF) funding for drinking-water infrastructure upgrades. EPA, the state and the city are working together to coordinate lead service-line replacement with cleanup work to expedite completion of the work and minimize disruptions. EPA provided 54 homes with filters and bottled water while Superfund work was underway at those properties in Zones 2 and 3. This year, Indiana will distribute filters to all residents in Zones 2 and 3. The Natural Resources Defense Council told CNN that Pruitt has yet to respond to its request for more EPA assistance and oversight in the lead problem in East Chicago's drinking water. Those demands include: Oversight of East Chicago's ongoing attempts to improve its corrosion control treatment; expanded blood-lead level testing of children under age 7; bottled water and home water filtration systems to residents throughout the city and testing the city's drinking water to determine the extent of the contamination. During his visit, Pruitt provided brief comments at a press conference in East Chicago but quickly exited without answering questions from reporters. The Agency's press release quoted Pruitt saying: "I'm focused on getting EPA back to the basics of protecting human health and the environment, and one of my top priorities is delivering real results for the people of East Chicago.' Pruitt went on: "Since I was sworn in as administrator, funding has been secured for drinking water infrastructure upgrades in East Chicago, filters and bottled water have been provided to residents and cleanup of contaminated soil has resumed."	True
679	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-09-18	It can be summed up in one word: confusion.	It appears that Trump's real purpose was to please his base while blunting criticism with the hint that he might change his mind.	They seem not to have read it.	Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude; other times it appears to be tactical.	Trump's Confusion Machine As international leaders gathered in New York for this week's meeting of the United Nations General Assembly, they got another taste of the Trump Administration's leadership style.		Trump's Confusion Machine As international leaders gathered in New York for this week's meeting of the United Nations General Assembly, they got another taste of the Trump Administration's leadership style. It can be summed up in one word: confusion. Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude; other times it appears to be tactical. Then came the election of Donald Trump. After months of intrigue about what he might do, Trump announced in June that the United States plans to withdraw from the accord "unless we can re-enter on terms that are more favorable to our country." It seemed that Trump left the door open to reversing his decision. Recent events have offered a good opportunity for Trump to do so. Steve Bannon, the senior advisor who reportedly pressed Trump to withdraw from the accord, has left the White House. Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showed with unprecedented fury that global warming is putting Americans in greater jeopardy by making storms more destructive. And the current convergence of world leaders on New York gives them another opportunity to lobby Trump to reverse his position. As last weekend began, the Wall Street Journal reported "The Trump administration is considering staying in the Paris agreement to fight climate change 'under the right conditions,' offering to re-engage in the international deal…" The White House shot down the story by responding that the president's intentions have not changed. It was the latest example of the bewilderment Trump has created about whether or not the world's second biggest source of climate-altering pollution plans to do anything about it. First, with his seemingly provisional withdrawal decision last June, Trump used one of his deal-making gambits. He announced an extreme position but hinted he was willing to negotiate. In reality, there is no deal to be made and no interest among other nations to reopen an agreement that took the world 20 years to achieve. It appears that Trump's real purpose was to please his base while blunting criticism with the hint that he might change his mind. Second, it is clear even now that Trump and his people do not understand the Paris accord. They seem not to have read it. It calls for voluntary commitments from nations to cut their greenhouse gas emissions. If Trump feels the climate action plan President Obama submitted under the Paris accord was somehow disadvantageous to the country, he could simply submit a new plan. Instead, Trump hopes to show that he is standing up to the world community on behalf of America's interests. Tillerson exhibited his lack of understanding when he said Sunday, "if you look at those targets and terms of the Paris climate accord, they were just really out of balance for the two largest economies." He presumably was talking about China and the United States, who are also the world's two largest carbon polluters. However, the commitments that China and the United States submitted under the Paris accord reflected a historic bilateral agreement that the two nations announced in November 2014. On Sept. 3, 2016, President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China jointly reaffirmed their commitments to the Paris deal "offering a rare display of harmony," as the New York Times put it. So, Tillerson's perception that the Paris accord is not good for China or the United States was not shared by the two nation's leaders. Nor, I assume, is it shared by the hundreds of businesses and investors who urged Trump to remain in the pact. Other history contradicts the idea that the United States signed onto an "out of balance" deal. In 1997, most nations signed the Kyoto Protocol, an agreement under which developed but not developing nations committed to reduce their carbon pollution. The premise was that the industrial economies were most responsible for the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, and that developing countries needed to continue using fossil fuels for the immediate future to grow their economies. The U.S. Senate, whose "advice and consent" was necessary before President Clinton could ratify the Protocol, signaled that it would not concur. It approved a resolution saying that it would not consent to any agreement that did not also include greenhouse gas reductions by developing nations. As a result, President Clinton did not bother to submit the Protocol to the Senate and in March 2001, President Bush announced officially that the U.S. would not participate. Third, Trump's conditional willingness to reengage in international climate action is belied by the fact that he has laid waste to the federal government's ability to influence America's carbon pollution. The United States would return to the table with little or nothing to offer in regard to our own substantial emissions.	False
706	CNN	left_bias	2017-06-02	"It can strengthen United States company's competitiveness in the global markets."	While the proclamations -- a relatively standard annual designation -- praised the US's oceans and natural landscapes, the language clearly differed from Obama's.	Instead, there is an administration-wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether.	"I think that measuring with precision human activity on the climate is something very challenging to do, and there's tremendous disagreement about the degree of impact," Pruitt said in a CNBC interview in March .	"You can't make something not real if you just don't talk about it.		Trump doesn't want to talk about climate change Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump spent an hour Thursday talking about his commitment to economic growth and national stability as he announced the decision to back out of the Paris Climate Accord. After famously calling climate change a "hoax" during the campaign, Trump has avoided the issue of increased man-made greenhouse gas emissions and their impact on global temperatures. Asked Wednesday if Trump thinks human activity is contributing to climate change, White House press secretary Sean Spicer responded , "Honestly, I haven't asked him that. I can get back to you." Two White House officials avoided similar questions at a background briefing with reporters after Trump's speech Thursday. And EPA chief Scott Pruitt dodged the question in an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper." This is not about whether climate change is occurring or not," Pruitt said on "The Lead." The pattern of the White House has been to turn away from the discussion of climate change without taking the step to argue directly that global warming isn't real. Instead, there is an administration-wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether. In recent months, Trump proposed cutting the Environmental Protection Agency budget by more than 30%. EPA has challenged scientific findings on climate change -- including by its own in-house scientists. And EPA cut climate information from its website. Former deputy EPA administrator under President Barack Obama, Bob Perciasepe, said the Trump administration's avoidance of the term "just makes them seem out of touch with reality." Climate change is happening, whether they speak about it or not," said Perciasepe, who currently serves as president of the nonprofit Center for Climate and Energy Solutions. "You can't make something not real if you just don't talk about it. It doesn't change reality -- it's just a way for them to de-emphasize something the rest of the world knows is going on." On Wednesday, the White House declared June National Oceans Month and Great Outdoors Month. While the proclamations -- a relatively standard annual designation -- praised the US's oceans and natural landscapes, the language clearly differed from Obama's. Where Obama's 2016 proclamations discussed the impacts of global warming, including drought and rising sea levels, Trump's focused on energy production, fisheries management and tourism with no mention of climate change. And the administration is adopting the same reasoning in press releases. Last month, the Interior Department released a study by the U.S. Geological Survey that highlighted the link between sea-level rise and global climate change. Except the release had one thing missing -- any mention of climate change. Three of the study's scientist authors told The Washington Post that they had to ultimately delete a line from the report that read "Global climate change drives sea-level rise, increasing the frequency of coastal flooding." Instead, the USGS release leaves the cause unmentioned . It begins: "The frequency and severity of coastal flooding throughout the world will increase rapidly and eventually double in frequency over the coming decades even with only moderate amounts of sea level rise."A defense against believing humans are responsible for climate change is that scientific studies are not 100% certain -- a stance frequently used by members of the Trump administration that muddles the scientific consensus that man-made emissions are driving global warming."I think that measuring with precision human activity on the climate is something very challenging to do, and there's tremendous disagreement about the degree of impact," Pruitt said in a CNBC interview in March . "So, no, I would not agree that it's a primary contributor to the global warming that we see." While the White House may be against jumping to conclusions on the available scientific studies -- with Pruitt even calling for more data from industry scientists -- the administration has done little to back up those calls monetarily. In fact, instead of spending money to further study the effects and reality, or unreality of global warming -- the administration has opted instead to cut much of the major funding that would go towards the studies." It is hypocritical," said Andrew Rosenberg, director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists. "They are complaining about uncertainty but at the same time increasing uncertainty by cutting back on ways to measure [climate change.]"For many, the administration's reluctance to deal with the idea of climate change comes down to one thought -- that economic growth and climate awareness cannot go hand in hand." The idea that they are operating on is that the US will be at a disadvantage if it deals with climate change. Most businesses would think that working on the climate issues can and has been creating jobs," said Perciasepe. "It can strengthen United States company's competitiveness in the global markets."	False
423	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-10-08	"Hence the 1.5 C target is aspirational, not functional."	There is near-universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide, likely through a tax, is key to scaling back emissions, in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products' societal costs.	"We're going to need to make a wide range of course corrections to have a hope of achieving 1.5 and also prepare for larger impacts than we're already experiencing."	But for some conservative climate hawks, the reality of the IPCC report hit home.	Polling released last month shows swelling support for a federal policy guaranteeing a high-wage job in a green industry to anyone who wants one.		'Sobering' New UN Report Challenges Republican Climate Hawks' Free-Market Dogma Kirsti McCluer / Reuters Golfers play in North Bonneville, Washington, last fall as the Eagle Creek wildfire burns. The U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said the world must drastically cut greenhouse gas emissions to avoid climate disaster." he only force that I know of on the planet that can deliver innovation as quickly as we need it is the free enterprise system," said former Rep. Bob Inglis (R-S.C.), now the executive director of RepublicEn, a group urging Republicans to support a carbon tax. The report, based on more than 6,000 scientific references, found that world governments have just 12 years to cut planet-warming gases 45 percent at a time when humanity's CO2 footprint is rapidly rising and fossil fuel emissions are hitting an all-time high. By 2050, emissions need to hit net zero. Failing to do so would be cataclysmic. The IPCC pegged the price of damage caused by 1.5 degrees of warming at $54 trillion ― a figure that soars to $69 trillion at 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, of temperature rise. There is near-universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide, likely through a tax, is key to scaling back emissions, in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products' societal costs. Last year Sens. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) and Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) and Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) and David Cicilline (D-R.I.) introduced companion carbon-tax bills in Congress. In July, Reps. Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.) and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-Pa.) proposed a lower carbon tax, earning plaudits for breaking with the Republican orthodoxy calling the very basics of climate change science into question." t's totally unrealistic," said Jennifer Francis, a research professor at Rutgers University. "We're going to need to make a wide range of course corrections to have a hope of achieving 1.5 and also prepare for larger impacts than we're already experiencing." Andrew Dessler, a climate scientist at Texas A&M University, cast doubt on the possibility of halting human-caused temperature at the 1 degree Celsius average global increase the planet has already experienced. Though he said a "carbon tax high enough" could "reduce emissions arbitrarily fast," the result would be soaring energy prices "rather than what we want, which is a switch to renewables." Asked during an IPCC press conference on Sunday night if carbon pricing could radically overhaul the global economy in the next decade, two IPCC authors started to laugh. James Skea, a co-chair of an IPCC working group, said it was "one among that portfolio of instruments that can be used" but could not serve as a panacea.A number of insurgent left-wing Democrats running in the 2018 midterms, including star New York City congressional candidate Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, are coalescing around a so-called Green New Deal, a loose set of proposals to spend trillions in federal dollars on renewable energy projects, coastal fortifications and home weatherization retrofits. Polling released last month shows swelling support for a federal policy guaranteeing a high-wage job in a green industry to anyone who wants one. Last month California became the biggest state to pass a law requiring 100 percent clean electricity by 2045. In a surprise move, Gov. Jerry Brown (D) also signed an executive order mandating the changes' sweep extend beyond utilities to the entire economy, including vehicles, the nation's largest source of carbon pollution. Curbelo and Fitzpatrick did not respond to requests for comment Monday. Nor did the oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp., which spent decades financing a network of climate change misinformation before announcing its support for a carbon tax, or the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, a corporate consortium that advocates for what it calls "practical solutions" to climate change. But for some conservative climate hawks, the reality of the IPCC report hit home. Jerry Taylor, a former climate denier who in recent years became the poster boy for Republican climate realism, said he sticks by a carbon tax as the best solution but believes keeping warming within 1.5 degrees is unrealistic at this point, regardless of policy."  steep enough global-economy-wide price on carbon could do it, but that's not likely to happen," said Taylor, the president of the libertarian Niskanen Center. "Hence the 1.5 C target is aspirational, not functional." Over lunch at a conference last week, Flint staked out his opposition to the Obama administration's use of executive authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions. A former Trump transition team official, he described himself as a "sherpa" for Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke's confirmation process. Now he says he's "trying to get politicians to catch up with the science." Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administration's federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted, Flint went quiet for a while.	False
363	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-04-19	Warmer temperatures make ozone more likely to form."	This adds to the evidence that a changing climate makes it harder to reduce ozone pollution and protect human health," Alexander saidBakersfield took the top spot in a list of cities with another variety of air pollution — small particulate matter, aka soot.	Overall, the report said about 133 million Americans — more than four of 10 — live with unhealthful levels of air pollution, placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer, asthma attacks, cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm."	Increased heat, changes in climate patterns, drought and wildfires — many related to climate change — contributed to the high number of days with unhealthy particulate matter.	We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution," said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander, director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign.		California has 8 of 10 most polluted American cities... Forget the Golden State. California should be called the Smoggy State. Eight of the USA's 10 most-polluted cities, in terms of ozone pollution, are in California, according to the American Lung Association's annual "State of the Air" report, released Wednesday. The Los Angeles/Long Beach area took the dubious distinction of being the nation's most ozone-polluted city as it has for nearly the entire 19-year history of the report. Overall, the report said about 133 million Americans — more than four of 10 — live with unhealthful levels of air pollution, placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer, asthma attacks, cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm." We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution," said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander, director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign. The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016. Ozone pollution was worse overall in this report than it was in last year's report. Bakersfield, Calif., was in second place for ozone pollution. Other California cities on the list include Fresno, Sacramento and San Diego. The only non-California metro areas in the top 10 list were Phoenix and New York City. Of the 10 most-polluted cities, seven cities did worse in this year's report, including Los Angeles and the New York City metro area. More: President Trump directs EPA to ease air quality rules he says suffocates industry"Near record-setting heat from our changing climate has resulted in dangerous levels of ozone in many cities across the country, making ozone an urgent health threat for millions of Americans," Lung Association President and CEO Harold P. Wimmer said. Smog forms on warm, sunny days and is made worse from chemicals that exit vehicle tailpipes and from power plant and industrial smokestacks. Warmer temperatures make ozone more likely to form." This adds to the evidence that a changing climate makes it harder to reduce ozone pollution and protect human health," Alexander saidBakersfield took the top spot in a list of cities with another variety of air pollution — small particulate matter, aka soot. Increased heat, changes in climate patterns, drought and wildfires — many related to climate change — contributed to the high number of days with unhealthy particulate matter. Since California is known for its strict environmental regulations, why are so many cities from the state typically on this list? It's because the state would be far worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal-fired power plants. California has done more than any other state to counteract air pollution, the Lung Association said. With this report, the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for ongoing threats to the nation's air quality, including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act. EPA administrator Scott Pruitt has taken many steps to roll back or put in loopholes to the Clean Air Act, Alexander said, adding that "the association is concerned and we will continue to fight for healthy air," she said. Some good news in the report was that particulate pollution "generally continued to improve in 2014-16," the report said. This was true for both short-term particulate pollution and for year-round particulate pollution. For year-round particle pollution, Fairbanks, Alaska, was the most-polluted city. The Lung Association also lists the nation's cleanest cities, meaning ones that experience no high ozone or high particulate pollution days. The nation's cleanest cities are Bellingham, Wash.; Burlington, Vt.; Casper, Wyo.; Honolulu; Melbourne, Fla.; and Wilmington, N.C.	False
570	rt	questionable_source	2018-10-24	It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric, as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory.	As for the water, it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt, an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents.	Trump, a proud climate change skeptic, attributes the fires to "lousy management."	Speaking at a White House address on Tuesday, Trump was shocked that Californians weren't using the water contained by their dams to put out the fires and irrigate their fields.	Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians, he says.		Trump threatens to cut federal aid to California over 'lousy management' of water & wildfires US President Donald Trump is taking California to task for the management of its forests and dams, blaming red tape for the devastating forest fires and drought plaguing the bluest of blue states, and threatening to withhold aid. Speaking at a White House address on Tuesday, Trump was shocked that Californians weren't using the water contained by their dams to put out the fires and irrigate their fields. "We have so much water they could actually water some of it," he said in disbelief. About half (48 percent) of California's land is currently experiencing drought conditions, which – combined with high temperatures and strong winds – are largely to blame for the record-setting rash of fires in the state, according to state fire chiefs. Trump, a proud climate change skeptic, attributes the fires to "lousy management." He has repeatedly said the forests are too dense and need to be thinned – a problem the logging industry would be happy to help with. As for the water, it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt, an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents. Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians, he says. Trump threatened to withhold future federal aid if California does not "get on the ball," implying that the state's environmental woes were its own fault. It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric, as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory. Last week, Trump signed a memo geared toward improving "the reliable supply and delivery of water in California, Oregon, and Washington" by streamlining environmental review and approval for water infrastructure projects. It's not a good week for the Delta smelt. Trump announced yesterday he will nominate Aurelia Skipwith, a former Monsanto lawyer, as director of the Fish and Wildlife Service. While she has worked for the department since 2013, environmentalists accuse her of gutting protections for migratory birds and endangered species.	False
417	vox	left_bias	2018-10-26	The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change, thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	As relief, they want the government to pursue policies to keep warming in check.	Ann Carlson, a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles, said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests there's something there that piques the court's interest."	The plaintiffs essentially are arguing that a safe climate is a civil right, so the implications for climate change policy are huge.	But then the children's lawsuit is an unusual case.		The Supreme Court is about to decide if the children's climate lawsuit can proceed One of the biggest legal battles over climate change is now in limbo pending a decision from the Supreme Court's chief justice, who last week took the odd step of halting the lawsuit to consider a stay. The court is expected to rule Friday on whether the case, which was expected to go to trial Monday, can proceed. The suit, Juliana v. US, also known as the children's climate lawsuit, was first filed in 2015 and now includes 21 plaintiffs between the ages of 11 and 22, including Sophie Kivlehan, 20, the granddaughter of the famed climate scientist James Hansen. The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change, thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate. As relief, they want the government to pursue policies to keep warming in check. The trial was supposed to begin at the United States District Court in Oregon on October 29. But last week, the defendant, the US government, asked for a stay of the case, arguing the costs of litigation would put an undue burden on it. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts granted a temporary stay and halted discovery until Wednesday to allow the plaintiffs to respond. The district court then vacated the case pending a decision from the high court. Working over the weekend, the children and their lawyers filed a 103-page brief on Monday, "in hopes of receiving a decision from the Chief Justice before the week's end." Now the case is back at the Supreme Court, and what happens next is unclear, including whether the other justices on the bench will weigh in. Several legal analysts told Vox it is extremely unusual for the Supreme Court to step in to block a legal proceeding in a lower court. Appeals from the District Court in Oregon are almost always handled by the 9th Circuit, which has already declined to block the lawsuit. And one of the only other times Supreme Court has done something like this was also related to climate change. In 2016, the court stayed the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan to limit greenhouse gases from power plants, pending ongoing lawsuits from states suing to block the rule from going into effect. But then the children's lawsuit is an unusual case. The plaintiffs essentially are arguing that a safe climate is a civil right, so the implications for climate change policy are huge. Though the case is in uncharted legal territory, it has survived several legal challenges and motions to dismiss, and lower federal courts have allowed it to proceed. Ann Carlson, a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles, said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests there's something there that piques the court's interest." t's certainly a signal that the court is uncomfortable with the underlying legal theory of the Juliana case," Carlson said. The federal government, under Presidents Barack Obama and Donald Trump, has argued the case has no merit and repeatedly sought to have it dismissed. Asked for comment, the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood, a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases, who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week. He said that "the purported constitutional right that they assert simply does not exist" and that the Juliana lawsuit "has no legal basis." In our view, the Oregon lawsuit is an unconstitutional attempt to use a single court to control the entire nation's energy and climate policy," Wood said, adding "the plaintiffs in Oregon are ignoring the fact that clean and responsible production and use of fossil fuels remains vital to the health and well-being of the American people." For climate activists old and young, the courts have become a last resort for pushing governments and businesses to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, especially with an executive branch that's still denying climate change exists and a gridlocked Congress. There are also several ongoing climate change lawsuits filed by cities, counties, and a state against oil companies, though the pivot points are different. The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change, whereas the children's case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions. But the prospects for the children's climate lawsuit to succeed appear dim, first because the courts tend to give wide latitude to the executive branch in these cases, and second because the Supreme Court's newest Justice Brett Kavanaugh is much more skeptical of environmental regulations than his predecessor." his is just the beginning of what we're likely to see from a Court that doesn't have Justice Kennedy on it anymore," Carlson said.	False
87	cnn	left_bias	2019-04-02	And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda -- I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that," DeSantis said .	Our environment and waterways make Florida unique," he said.	We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?"	My environmental policy is just to do things that benefit Floridians.	"I look forward to working with the governor and the Department of Environmental Protection on ways we can use sound science and research to improve our state's water quality and protect the environment."		Republican governor appoints Florida's first chief science officer (CNN) Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis appointed the state's first chief science officer on Monday, marking what he called the state's "commitment to science-based solutions." DeSantis appointed Thomas Frazer , a biologist who has been director of the University of Florida's School of Natural Resources and Environment since 2012 and previously worked as acting director of the UF Water InstituteIn the new position , he will coordinate Florida's research, data and scientific work and make sure officials have the scientific analysis they need to tackle the state's environmental problems. Frazer's research has looked at pollution's effects on water. He's also worked on research involving climate change. He's been on the faculty advisory committee with the UF Climate Institute and served as chairman of the Climate Science Faculty Committee. Climate change will be a part of his office's mission." We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?" Frazer said. Asked whether he thought climate change was a threat to Florida, DeSantis said the issue was "politicized" but noted that he considers sea-level rise a serious threat." My environmental policy is just to do things that benefit Floridians. And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda -- I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that," DeSantis said . "This is what we're going to do. We're going to do what works." DeSantis said the appointment keeps with his promise to make "sound science" a Florida priority." As one of Florida's leading environmental researchers, Dr. Frazer understands the unique water issues facing our state and the actions we must take to solve them," he said Monday. "Since day one, my administration has been laser focused on addressing our pressing environmental challenges." On January 10, DeSantis signed an Executive Order that pledged to secure $2.5 billion over the next four years to restore the Everglades. It created the Blue-Green Algae Task Force and promised to work with local communities to invest in green infrastructure. It also created the chief science officer position. Frazer will have his work cut out for him. In July, Scott declared a state of emergency for several counties to help local governments deal with an unprecedented toxic algal bloom that killed thousands of marine animals, including dolphins and manatees. The bloom, which affected more than 100 miles of Florida shoreline, also sent people to the doctor with respiratory problems and eye issues. below sea level by 2100, Sea level rise alone is projected to outpace the global average for Southeast Florida. The region could see nearly a foot more of water in the short term. There's also a chance that more than $346 billion in property value will bebelow sea level by 2100, studies showFrazer said he's honored by the appointment." Our environment and waterways make Florida unique," he said. "I look forward to working with the governor and the Department of Environmental Protection on ways we can use sound science and research to improve our state's water quality and protect the environment."	False
203	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-11-18	Far-right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	They say the president favours development over conservation.• Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?Mr Bolsonaro - who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed - has not commented on the latest data.	But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	As the largest rainforest in the world, the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming.	Over the past decade, previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines.		Brazil's Amazon deforestation highest since 2008, space agency says Deforestation of Brazil's Amazon rainforest increased by 29.5% in 12 months, the highest rate since 2008, the country's space agency reports. The rainforest lost 9,762 sq km (3,769 sq miles) of its vegetation between August 2018 and July 2019, Inpe says. Far-right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe. Scientists say the Amazon has suffered losses at an accelerated rate since Mr Bolsonaro took office in January. They say the president favours development over conservation.• Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?Mr Bolsonaro - who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed - has not commented on the latest data. As the largest rainforest in the world, the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming. Over the past decade, previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines. But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	False
438	vox	left_bias	2018-09-21	"[There's] rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office."	This means conservation, preserving culture, and facilitating recreation.	We should be in the business of being a partner."	And then that evening, Zinke's official Twitter account went into damage control mode, implying the message was meant for a broader audience rather than just the industries he's supposed to regulate.	)However, environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement.		Ryan Zinke to the oil and gas industry: "Our government should work for you" Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke let the mask slip this week, turning the subtext of his term in office backing fossil fuels into the headline as he spoke to a friendly audience. On Tuesday, Zinke gave the keynote address at the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association's fall meeting in Lafayette, Louisiana. He told the conference over lunch "our government should work for you," according to organizers:You can debate what Zinke meant by "work for you," but many heard it as a pledge of allegiance to the industry. And according to the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association, the industry members in the room were thrilled with the pledge, giving Zinke a standing ovation. (An organizer told me none of the speeches at the event were recorded.)However, environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement. And then that evening, Zinke's official Twitter account went into damage control mode, implying the message was meant for a broader audience rather than just the industries he's supposed to regulate. But Zinke has said pretty much the same thing before. In March, he told an energy industry conference: "Interior should not be in the business of being an adversary. We should be in the business of being a partner." For the record, the Interior Department's job is to manage about 75 percent of federal public land, which amounts to about one-fifth of the total area of the United States. This means conservation, preserving culture, and facilitating recreation. It also entails leasing rights to mining, drilling, grazing, and logging. However, it does not mean that the agency needs to advance the fossil fuel industry's interests, certainly not at the expense of the environment. But the Interior Department under Zinke has been pushing much harder to open up public lands to private companies while drastically rolling back its environmental responsibilities." ur mandate is multiple-use of public lands, and multiple-use also includes the development of natural resources as we seek to leverage American energy for American strength," Zinke wrote in the department's 2018-'22 strategic plan. One place we've seen Zinke pick sides is in his response to California's record wildfires. Rather than acknowledging the role of climate change in increasing fire risks, he blamed "environmental terrorist groups" while calling for more private logging on public lands. Zinke's words have been loud, but his actions have been even louder. Under Zinke, we've seen the largest rollback of federal land protections in US history. He also opened nearly all US coastal waters to offshore oil and gas drilling, preparing for the largest lease sale in US history. The National Park Service, which is part of the Interior Department, proposed more than doubling national park entrance fees before settling on increases of $5 to $10. The Bureau of Land Management, also part of the Interior Department, announced this week it was revising its rules on methane emissions from gas drilling on public lands. Interior is also pushing for more roads in wilderness areas, dialing back conservation plans for wildlife, and selling leases for Arctic oil and gas drilling. The agency canceled a study looking into the health impacts of coal mining and dismissed violations committed by coal companies. Taken together, it's pretty clear who Zinke is working for. However, the Trump administration has the odd habit of stumbling over itself. President Donald Trump's trade war is already threatening to undo gains for the fossil fuel industry as China readies tariffs on US energy. Zinke himself tendencies exhibited by former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt that have invited scrutiny from lawmakers. He's opaque with his schedule, obscuring his dealings with the energy industry. He took a $12,000 flight on an oil executive's charter plane. He was involved in a land deal with the chair of Halliburton, which may have violated conflict of interest rules. The Government Accountability Office had to end a probe in June into whether Zinke threatened Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) over her vote on Obamacare because the Interior Department didn't cooperate. He also has his office fly a secretarial flag when he's in the building and minted his own challenge coin. With Pruitt no longer sucking the oxygen out of the room, congressional Democrats are now eyeing Zinke and have promised more investigations of his conduct should they take control of the House in the fall." inke is one the most ethically challenged members of the Cabinet and maybe one of the most ethically challenged secretaries of the Interior we've had in living memory," Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA), who could chair the House Oversight Government Operations Subcommittee if Democrats win in November, told Politico this week. "[There's] rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office."	True
400	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-11-19	hat we are seeing is a growing consciousness," Sanders said.	Just 38 percent of registered voters said candidates' positions on global warming would be "very important" to their voting decisions, according to a Yale Program On Climate Change Communication survey published in May.	e helped popularize things like Medicare for All, a living wage and a lot of other fights he's taken up," said Varshini Prakash, the co-founder of Sunrise Movement.	Activists, freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of California's deadliest wildfire, seem primed for action, and the party's progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue that's remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade."	There's a whole host of progressive issues, yet this is the one he's leading with.		Bernie Sanders, Stoking Democratic Uproar Over Global Warming, Sets A Climate Town Hall ASSOCIATED PRESS Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) is hosting a livestreamed summit on climate change next month, intensifying pressure on the new Congress and TV networks to devote attention to the crisis." e need millions of people all over this country to stand up and demand fundamental changes in our energy policy in order to protect our kids and our grandchildren and the planet," Sanders told HuffPost by phone. "The good news is the American people are beginning to stand up and fight back." The event bolsters Sanders, a likely contender for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination, as the most serious candidate on climate change, offering a far more comprehensive response than rival progressive Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), who staked out a climate policy based on a bill to force public companies to disclose financial risk from warming or regulations to curb emissions. The summit, which took months to plan, will take place less than a month after Rep.-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) propelled talk of a so-called Green New Deal into the Democratic mainstream, giving play for the first time to the sort of federal response to climate change scientists say is necessary to fully meet the scale of the crisis. In October, the United Nations concluded world governments must halve emissions over the next 12 years or risk catastrophic warming with $54 trillion in damage." hat we are seeing is a growing consciousness," Sanders said. "The horrors that we've seen in California in the largest forest fire that that state has ever experienced ― this is not going to be an anomaly unless we begin the long, hard struggle to transform our energy system." Climate remains a low priority for most voters. Just 38 percent of registered voters said candidates' positions on global warming would be "very important" to their voting decisions, according to a Yale Program On Climate Change Communication survey published in May. Rising temperatures ranked 15th of 28 issues voters ranked in the questionnaire. In the lead up to the 2018 midterm elections, the fossil fuel industry spent $100 million to crush pro-climate ballot measures across the West, and to prop up candidates who supported increased oil and gas extraction. Yet that base of climate hawks helped elect a cadre of Democrats whose urgent visions for climate action earned plaudits from a spectrum ranging from mainstream environmental groups to so-called eco-socialists. And a new majority of Democratic state attorneys general are facing growing pressure to file lawsuits over climate damages. Activists, freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of California's deadliest wildfire, seem primed for action, and the party's progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue that's remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade." he fact that [climate change] is that high among the base of one of our two major political parties is remarkable, because that was not the case even five years ago," said Anthony Leiserowitz, a senior research scientist and Yale's climate program director. "If you think of Bernie, you'd think he'd be talking about inequality or civil rights. There's a whole host of progressive issues, yet this is the one he's leading with. It may suggest there's been an alignment of the stars." Last week, youth activists with the grassroots climate group Sunrise Movement staged sit-ins in the offices of House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Rep. Frank Pallone (D-N.J.), the likely next chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, who opposed the creation of a select committee on a Green New Deal. The horrors that we've seen in California in the largest forest fire that that state has ever experienced ― this is not going to be an anomaly unless we being the long hard struggle to transform our energy system." e helped popularize things like Medicare for All, a living wage and a lot of other fights he's taken up," said Varshini Prakash, the co-founder of Sunrise Movement. "I hope he pushes for a Green New Deal and helps really add fuel to the fire that's been lit under politicians and the public over the past week." Sanders stopped short of endorsing the Green New Deal. But in April 2017, he co-sponsored legislation to move the United States to 100-percent clean energy by 2050. The bill included $7 billion in targeted infrastructure and environmental investments in fossil-fuel communities, and called for union labor protections for workers on federally backed green jobs. In November 2017, Sanders introduced a bill to spend $146 billion rebuilding storm-ravaged Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands with renewable energy. Seventy-one percent of major, televised debates in the 2018 midterm elections ignored the issue completely. Only four of the 107 segments ABC, CBS and NBC aired from Nov. 8 to Nov. 13 on the deadly wildfires scorching California this month discussed climate change. In 2017, the influential Sunday morning talk shows on ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox News aired a combined 260 minutes of climate coverage, 79 percent of which focused exclusively on President Donald Trump's personal beliefs on science and his decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement.	False
147	motherjones	left_bias	2019-06-27	Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because "climate change is an issue that affects every other issue: agriculture, the economy, including tourism."	She recalls a friend saying, "Who wants to go to Disney when it's 105 degrees outside?"	Melissa Baldwin, co-organizer of Miami Climate Month, which organized the rally, says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami, they wanted to "put a spotlight on climate change, because you can't come to Miami without talking about climate change."	Climate change and fossil fuels have already disturbed the daily lives of Floridians.	Activists Outside the 2020 Debate Are Demanding That Climate Change Take Center Stage Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off, dozens of local activists in Miami, Florida held an "Underwater Climate Rally," calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate.		Activists Outside the 2020 Debate Are Demanding That Climate Change Take Center Stage Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off, dozens of local activists in Miami, Florida held an "Underwater Climate Rally," calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate. A coalition of local environmental groups organized the march to the Arsht Center in Miami, where this round of debates is being held, with marchers sporting signs calling for a specific climate change debate and pushing for the Green New Deal. Melissa Baldwin, co-organizer of Miami Climate Month, which organized the rally, says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami, they wanted to "put a spotlight on climate change, because you can't come to Miami without talking about climate change." Climate change and fossil fuels have already disturbed the daily lives of Floridians. Sea level rise and warming temperatures threaten cities like Miami. Kim Ross, ReThink Energy Florida leader, resident witnessed people in her community in Tallahassee feeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster, which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems." his isn't something in the future," Ross says. "This is something that's happening now and needs to be addressed now." At the first 2020 Democratic debate on Wednesday night, Democrats spent less than 10 minutes talking about climate change. Though not an extensive conversation, that was still more time spent talking about climate change than in all of three debates combined between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in 2016. Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because "climate change is an issue that affects every other issue: agriculture, the economy, including tourism." She recalls a friend saying, "Who wants to go to Disney when it's 105 degrees outside?"	False
49	foxnews	right_bias	2019-11-04	They rely for so much, and we would be giving them so little."	Our results speak for themselves," he wrote.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPIn his statement Monday, however, Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally."	GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE, SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS'"Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges, and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions," Sen. Jim Inhofe, R-Okla., said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016.	"The United States has reduced all types of emissions, even as we grow our economy and ensure our citizens' access to affordable energy."		United States begins process of withdrawing from Paris climate deal The United States submitted a formal notification that it will withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced Monday, a move that has been widely expected since President Trump announced his intention to do so in 2017. The climate agreement, which went into force Nov. 4, 2016, committed countries that signed the measure to take certain voluntary steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The agreement was not legally enforceable and countries set their own emissions targets. The accord banned countries from announcing their intent to withdraw in its first three years, meaning Monday was the first day the U.S. was allowed to submit its intent to leave the agreement since it went into force in 2016." President Trump made the decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement because of the unfair economic burden imposed on American workers, businesses, and taxpayers by U.S. pledges made under the Agreement," Pompeo said in a statement. "The United States has reduced all types of emissions, even as we grow our economy and ensure our citizens' access to affordable energy." LEONARDO DICAPRIO PRAISES GRETA THUNBERG AS 'A LEADER OF OUR TIME'Trump has previously said that the Paris climate agreement harms the U.S. economy and would hurt American jobs if left to stand." Compliance with the terms of the Paris accord and the onerous energy restrictions it has placed on the United States could cost America as much as 2.7 million lost jobs by 2025 according to the National Economic Research Associates," Trump said in the Rose Garden in 2017 when he announced plans to remove the U.S. from the accord. "This includes 440,000 fewer manufacturing jobs — not what we need — believe me, this is not what we need — including automobile jobs, and the further decimation of vital American industries on which countless communities rely. They rely for so much, and we would be giving them so little." Some opponents of the agreement have noted that countries such as Russia and China were not affected as significantly by the accord as the United States and pointed out the unencouraging results of the Kyoto Protocol, raising questions about whether the Paris agreement would reduce global greenhouse gas emissions at all. GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE, SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS'"Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges, and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions," Sen. Jim Inhofe, R-Okla., said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016. "Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the world's largest carbon emitter, China, is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal-fired power plant online every 10 days. We even turn a blind eye to the fact that China lied about its carbon emissions when it first came to the table with its pledge last year." Others, however, see America backing out of the international pact to limit greenhouse gas emissions as an abdication of global leadership and denial of basic climate science." By withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement to double-down on a coal & fossil fuel energy agenda, Trump has engaged in a unilateral disarmament in the economic arms race that is the transition to clean energy," said Michael Mann, a climate scientist and professor at Penn State University. "The challenge of averting dangerous and irreversible climate change and massive coastal inundation, devastating floods and droughts, is that much more an uphill climb with Trump's pullout from the Paris agreement." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPIn his statement Monday, however, Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally." Our results speak for themselves," he wrote. "U.S. emissions of criteria air pollutants that impact human health and the environment declined by 74 percent between 1970 and 2018. U.S. net greenhouse gas emissions dropped 13 percent from 2005-2017, even as our economy grew over 19 percent."	False
868	Bipartisan Report	questionable_source	2017-04-02	After listing this information, Wallace then asked, "Mr. Pruitt, are we supposed to believe that's all a coincidence?	"Unable to give a straight answer, Pruitt first admitted that human activity does contribute to the current "warming trend."	Watch the interview below, via YouTube.	The Fox News Sunday anchor went on to reference a report from the U.N. that says it is 95 percent likely that human activity has caused the majority of the warming that has taken place since the mid-20th century.	"Realizing that he wasn't going to get anywhere with Pruitt on that particular issue, Wallace switched gears slightly to ask a final question about the Trump administration's proposed cuts to the EPA.		Top Trump Cabinet Pick Went On 'Fox News Sunday' – It Was A Disaster (VIDEO) Last month, during an episode of CNBC's Squawk Box, Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, said that he did not consider carbon emissions to be a "primary contributor" to global warming. Pruitt was pretty steadfast in his position then; however, on Sunday, he was forced to entertain the possibility that he might be wrong during an interview with Fox News's Chris Wallace. After referencing Pruitt's statement from last month, Wallace said that there are "all kinds of studies" that contradict him. The Fox News Sunday anchor went on to reference a report from the U.N. that says it is 95 percent likely that human activity has caused the majority of the warming that has taken place since the mid-20th century. The report also determines that there is "more carbon dioxide now than in the last 400,000 years" and that 2015 and 2016 were the two hottest years on record. After listing this information, Wallace then asked, "Mr. Pruitt, are we supposed to believe that's all a coincidence?"Unable to give a straight answer, Pruitt first admitted that human activity does contribute to the current "warming trend." He then quickly moved on to accusing President Obama of "reimagining authority" with his clean power plan and praised Trump's recent executive order undoing environmental regulations that Obama put in place. Wallace quickly called Pruitt out on his inability to answer the question, saying, "Sir, you're sugar coating what you have said."'You said there that you would not agree that carbon CO2 is a primary contributor to global warming. And the question I have is, what if you're wrong? What if, in fact, the Earth is warming, what if it is causing dramatic climate change and that we as humans through carbon emissions are contributing to it?'Backed into a corner, Pruitt conceded that CO2 does contribute to global warming, although he followed up this concession by saying, "The issue is how much we contribute to it from a human activity perspective and what can be done about it from a process perspective." Wallace responded by asking, "But don't you think the fact that we have these coal power plants belching carbon emissions into the air, you don't think that plays a role?"Realizing that he wasn't going to get anywhere with Pruitt on that particular issue, Wallace switched gears slightly to ask a final question about the Trump administration's proposed cuts to the EPA. Once again, Pruitt took the question as an opportunity to criticize the Obama administration, saying that in the past there has been a "lack of commitment to state partnership." When Wallace asked him if he was sure that the states would pick up the slack, Pruitt said that he had met with several governors who had confirmed that they would. Whether or not that's actually true remains to be seen. Watch the interview below, via YouTube. Featured image is a screenshot from the video.	False
95	talkingpointsmemo	left_bias	2019-02-07	She calls for a "World War II-scale mobilization" that includes high-quality education and health care, clean air and water and safe, affordable housing.	Ocasio-Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create "unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security."	She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal, Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know-how and capability.	While setting lofty goals, the plan does not explicitly call for eliminating the use of fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas, a nod to pragmatism that may disappoint some of Ocasio-Cortez's strongest supporters.	Government can take an equity stake in Green New Deal projects "so the public gets a return on its investment," she said.		Democrats Mobilize On Green New Deal WASHINGTON (AP) — Democrats including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York are calling for a Green New Deal intended to transform the U.S. economy to combat climate change and create thousands of jobs in renewable energy. The freshman lawmaker and veteran Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts are teaming up on the plan, which aims to eliminate the U.S. carbon footprint by 2030.A joint resolution drafted by Ocasio-Cortez and Markey sets a goal to meet "100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources," including dramatic increases in wind and solar power.A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday, the day they introduce the resolution. While setting lofty goals, the plan does not explicitly call for eliminating the use of fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas, a nod to pragmatism that may disappoint some of Ocasio-Cortez's strongest supporters. Even so, their Green New Deal goes far beyond the Clean Power Plan proposed by President Barack Obama. President Donald Trump has scrapped Obama's plan, which imposed emissions limits on coal-fired power plants, as a job-killer. The Democrats are likely to meet resistance to their proposal in Congress, especially in the Republican-controlled Senate. Trump, who has expressed doubts about climate change, also is likely to oppose it. The resolution marks the first time Ocasio-Cortez and other lawmakers have attached legislative language onto the Green New Deal, a concept that until now has been largely undefined other than as a call for urgent action to head off catastrophic climate change and create jobs. Several Democratic presidential hopefuls have embraced the idea of a Green New Deal without saying exactly what it means. Ocasio-Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create "unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security." She calls for a "World War II-scale mobilization" that includes high-quality education and health care, clean air and water and safe, affordable housing. Answering critics who call the plan unrealistic, Ocasio-Cortez says that when President John F. Kennedy wanted to go to the moon by the end of the 1960s, "people said it was impossible." She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal, Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know-how and capability. While focusing on renewable energy, Ocasio-Cortez said the plan would include existing nuclear power plants but block new nuclear plants. Nuclear power does not emit greenhouse gases, which contribute to global warming. The resolution does not include a price tag, but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars. They denounced the plan at House hearings on climate change on Wednesday. The Green New Deal would be paid for "the same way we paid for the original New Deal, World War II, the bank bailouts, tax cuts for the rich and decades of war — with public money appropriated by Congress," Ocasio-Cortez said. Government can take an equity stake in Green New Deal projects "so the public gets a return on its investment," she said.	False
675	CNN	left_bias	2017-08-02	"I'm not a scientist, but I'm a keen observer," Eskridge said.	I'm just not seeing it."	The town hall featured people across the country who challenged Gore on the issue or asked his thoughts.	But Gore's -- and Ivanka's -- influence clearly was not enough.	Gore said it was hard to translate what scientists said into something readily observable and believable.		Al Gore presses on with climate change action in the Trump era "I actually did feel there was a real chance that he might come to his senses and stay in the Paris Agreement," said Gore, who has spent years in pursuit of action on climate change and on Tuesday joined CNN for a town hall, moderated by Anderson Cooper. Gore met with Trump after the 2016 election at the invitation of Ivanka Trump, and he spoke again with the President by phone in early May. But Gore's -- and Ivanka's -- influence clearly was not enough. After some delay, Trump announced in the Rose Garden in June that he intended to pull the United States out of the climate agreement. Gore declined to get into the details of his private conversations with Trump, but said those conversations had left him with "reason to believe" Trump would keep the United States in the agreement, but added that thankfully his worst fears about the withdrawal were not realized."I was worried that other countries might use it as an excuse to pull out themselves," Gore said. "But I was gratified when the next day the entire rest of the world doubled down on the commitment to meet the terms of the Paris Agreement, and then in this country, so many governors and mayors and business leaders said, 'We're still in.'"Gore said that even with Trump's decision, the United States could still manage to meet its own commitments under the Paris Agreement. The town hall featured people across the country who challenged Gore on the issue or asked his thoughts. Mayor James Eskridge of Tangier Island, Virginia, said his home town needed a sea wall to fight erosion, but claimed sea-level rise was not affecting them. "I'm not a scientist, but I'm a keen observer," Eskridge said. "And if sea level rise is occurring, why am I not seeing signs of it?" Earth to warm 2 degrees Celsius by the end of this century, studies say Gore said he was aware of the town's situation, and said the town was losing ground to rising seas. Tangier Island gained national prominence after Trump called Eskridge in response to a CNN piece on the town. "Arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be of any comfort to you," Gore said. "Won't necessarily do you any good for me to tell you that the scientists do say the sea level is rising in the Chesapeake Bay, and that you've lost about two-thirds of your island already." Eskridge stood by his claim, saying, "If I see sea-level rise occurring, I'll shout it from the house top. ... I'm just not seeing it." Gore said it was hard to translate what scientists said into something readily observable and believable. "I try every day to figure out ways to do that," he said. Gore warned there could be visible signs of a changing climate, including stronger hurricanes due to rising ocean temperatures. "As the oceans get warmer, these ocean based storms get a lot stronger," he said. "There may not be more hurricanes, but the ones that do come are on average likely to be much stronger." However, Gore insisted that there is still time to act, despite challenges that may lie ahead "in adapting to what we can't avoid." "We still have the ability to slow it down. We have the ability to prevent even worse sea level rise and and even worse catastrophes that are also caused by the climate crisis," Gore said.	False
491	usatoday	left_center_bias	2018-11-02	Constitution."	The lawsuit was brought on behalf of children now ages 11-22, as well as future generations.	The action keeps alive, at least for now, an unusual lawsuit begun in 2015 to force a change in federal environmental policy by declaring a "climate system capable of sustaining human life" a civil right.	Whether those claims should be handled in court "presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion," the court said then.	Lawyers for Our Children's Trust have argued that government policies have deprived the children of their "constitutional rights to life, liberty, and property, to dignity, to personal security, to a stable climate system capable of sustaining human lives and liberties."		Supreme Court won&apos;t halt unusual climate change lawsuit brought by children on behalf of &apos;future generations&apos; WASHINGTON – The Supreme Court refused the Trump administration's request Friday to block 21 young people from putting a warming planet on trial in Eugene, Ore. The action keeps alive, at least for now, an unusual lawsuit begun in 2015 to force a change in federal environmental policy by declaring a "climate system capable of sustaining human life" a civil right. The lawsuit was brought on behalf of children now ages 11-22, as well as future generations. But while refusing to halt the trial, the justices indicated that the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit could do so if the Justice Department asks. That court has refused to intervene in the past. Associate Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch dissented, presumably because they were prepared to stop the trial now. The justices had expressed misgivings about the lawsuit in July, when they refused to stop the legal process but said the breadth of the claims was "striking." Whether those claims should be handled in court "presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion," the court said then. Lawyers for Our Children's Trust have argued that government policies have deprived the children of their "constitutional rights to life, liberty, and property, to dignity, to personal security, to a stable climate system capable of sustaining human lives and liberties." They want the government to "prepare an accounting of the nation's greenhouse gas emissions, and prepare and implement an enforceable national remedial plan" for reducing carbon emissions. Federal district court Judge Ann Aiken, who has presided over pretrial briefing for more than two years, had scheduled the trial to begin Monday and last up to 12 weeks." ourts have an obligation not to overstep the bounds of their jurisdiction, but they have an equally important duty to fulfill their role as a check on any unconstitutional actions of the other branches of government," she said last month in denying the government's effort to stall or dismiss the trial. The Justice Department objected to the time and expense, claiming that the issue was one for Congress, not the courts, to resolve. Its objections were first raised during the Obama administration." his suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process, by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions," Solicitor General Noel Francisco argued in court papers. The children on whose behalf the lawsuit was filed, he said, "can make no credible claim of imminent, irreparable harm. Their alleged injuries stem from the cumulative effects of CO2 emissions from every source in the world over decades." Although the case, Juliana v. United States, has yet to reach the trial stage, it has been taught in more than two dozen law schools as well as primary and secondary schools, lawyers for the children said – "inspiring students of all ages to see themselves in the parchment of the U.S. Constitution." More: Supreme Court: Conservative groups see opportunities to cut regulation, shore up property rightsMore: Brett Kavanaugh vote: Will 'asterisk justice' bring political stain to Supreme Court?More: Who is the real Brett Kavanaugh? Legal whiz kid or partisan hack? Mentor to women or beer-loving frat boy?	False
72	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-02-07	org.	The resolution calls for a World War II-style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others.	Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming.		'Green New Deal' Looks To Tackle The Scourge Of Cow Flatulence Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's newly-released "Green New Deal" resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal, but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions. The resolution calls for a World War II-style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations. If that's the case, that means any subsequent "Green New Deal" legislation would have to deal with a major source of methane emissions — cow flatulence. Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming. Enteric fermentation, the digestive process in cows and other ruminant animals, is the largest source of U.S. methane emissions, according to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) data. EPA says "cattle account for the majority of [methane] emissions in the United States for this source category," referring to emissions from enteric fermentation. (RELATED: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez: 'Green New Deal Is About Social Justice')Being a non-binding resolution, the "Green New Deal" doesn't offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated. The question then becomes: How do you eliminate emissions from cows, sheep and other animals?Certainly, environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of people's diets in the name of the climate, but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health. Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals. The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others. The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014, which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations. Republican lawmakers worried the Obama-era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers. Methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, but makes up a much smaller slice of America's emissions profile. Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane, which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
263	rt	questionable_source	2019-03-03	Think your friends would be interested?	The 'world as it is' has the option of taking the subway rather than a taxi," Moore continued.	"You're just a garden-variety hypocrite like the others.	Share this story!	An early overview of the plan, since removed from Ocasio-Cortez' website, promised "economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work," swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision-making, and even vowed to eliminate "farting cows."		'Pompous twit will get us all killed': AOC tweet-tacked over Green New Deal by ex-Greenpeace founder Greenpeace founder turned climate change skeptic Patrick Moore has reignited his feud with Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, calling her a "pompous little twit" and "garden-variety hypocrite" in a barrage of tweets. Moore helped found the veteran eco-organization in the 1970s, before parting ways with his fellow activists over their left-wing politics and becoming an advocate for nuclear power and lobbyist for the forestry industry. Lately, he has been tussling with New York Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez over the 'Green New Deal,' an ambitious piece of environmental legislation that seeks to dramatically overhaul America's energy sector and economy in a bid to slash carbon output. Moore began picking the Green New Deal apart in February, ridiculing its promise to remove "greenhouse gases from the atmosphere." Technically," he stated, "this would mean removing all H2O vapour and all CO2 which would mean the eradication of all life on Earth." The legislation has been ridiculed from all sides for its proposed abolition of air travel and fossil fuel powered vehicles, as well as its estimated cost of over $50 trillion, over twice the worth of the entire US economy. Ocasio-Cortez has stuck to her guns, however. In a tweet, the Bronx Democrat told skeptics "If you don't like the Green New Deal, then come up with your own ambitious, on-scale proposal... until then, we're in charge." Moore hit back, calling AOC a "pompous little twit" and claiming that "if fossil fuels were banned every tree in the world would be cut down for fuel for cooking and heating. You would bring about mass death." More recently, a New York Post hit-piece lambasted Ocasio-Cortez for using cars to get around while campaigning in New York instead of the subway system. "I also fly and use A/C," Ocasio-Cortez responded. "Living in the world as it is isn't an argument against working towards a better future." The 'world as it is' has the option of taking the subway rather than a taxi," Moore continued. "You're just a garden-variety hypocrite like the others. And you have ZERO expertise at any of the things you pretend to know," he tweeted on Sunday, before calling AOC an "immature bully." Ocasio-Cortez' more mainstream Democrat colleagues have paid lip-service to the Green New Deal, but have been cautious about declaring support for the plan. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday, saying it "goes beyond what our charge is." In addition to slashing carbon emissions, the deal calls for widespread wealth redistribution to "counteract systemic injustices," and includes provisions for universal healthcare and taxpayer-funded college tuition. An early overview of the plan, since removed from Ocasio-Cortez' website, promised "economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work," swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision-making, and even vowed to eliminate "farting cows." Republicans argue that the deal is tantamount to full-blown socialism. Its more outlandish provisions have turned it into a punching bag for the GOP, who have sought to paint the Democratic party as the party of socialist totalitarianism ahead of next year's election. After referring to AOC as a raving "lunatic," President Donald Trump said on Saturday that the deal "is the new Democrat platform, and I don't want to talk them out of it...I want them to embrace this plan. I just want to be the Republican who runs against them." Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
292	rt	questionable_source	2019-09-05	Like this story?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	"Twitter furiously deploying algorithms to keep Biden's bloody corpse eye from trending," observed another (it appeared to work - while #ClimateTownHall was trending, #BidensBloodyEye and variations thereof were noticeably not).	Meanwhile, others made the inevitable comparisons to Hillary Clinton – another candidate with a marked "enthusiasm gap" between donors and voters, who has run for president and lost before, yet is propped up by the media as the surefire winner.	At around the same time, his campaign cautioned voters not to "turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines" – an ironic coincidence, or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?Before Biden's eye exploded, the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive.		Is he ok? Biden's eye fills with BLOOD as he defends fossil fuel ties at climate forum (VIDEO) Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audience's eyes at the climate change town hall – literally, as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half-truths and excuses. The former Vice President was clearly floundering during CNN's climate change town hall on Wednesday, which saw him face off against eight other Democrats. Viewers called him out for "rambling, incoherent" answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry. Then his left eye began filling up with blood. At around the same time, his campaign cautioned voters not to "turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines" – an ironic coincidence, or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?Before Biden's eye exploded, the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive. The three-time candidate has never been particularly committed to "green" issues – slammed by environmental groups for not having a climate change policy, he finally released one in June that contained several plagiarized items. But he had, along with most of the other Democratic candidates, promised not to take money from the fossil fuel industry – a promise the fundraiser seemed to break, to viewers' dismay. But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye. "Look, Biden haters, sometimes your eye is gonna spontaneously fill up with blood, okay," one user joked. "Twitter furiously deploying algorithms to keep Biden's bloody corpse eye from trending," observed another (it appeared to work - while #ClimateTownHall was trending, #BidensBloodyEye and variations thereof were noticeably not). Apparently, it wasn't even the first time Biden's eye has filled up with blood during an important political event. But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment. "Not sure after tonight who has less time to live, Biden or the planet," said one. "Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding," commented another. "I give it 14 minutes before Biden's campaign says his bloody eye was because of climate change," predicted another. Meanwhile, others made the inevitable comparisons to Hillary Clinton – another candidate with a marked "enthusiasm gap" between donors and voters, who has run for president and lost before, yet is propped up by the media as the surefire winner. And some took time out from gawking to worry about his health, since political speeches don't normally cause visible injury. "Does Biden have a blood clot in his left eye?" wondered one user. "This can't be good news, given his health history," noted another. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False
875	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-04-26	com	It recommends that the world cut emissions to a "net zero" by the year 2050 to hold back global heating.	According to the ETC website, the group's goal is to "accelerate change towards low-carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius."	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	The group is made up of energy company executives, activists, investment bankers, Al Gore, and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of  funds, the Daily Caller reports.		Al Gore-Backed Group Demands Countries Kick In $15 Trillion to Fight Global Warming In its report, ETC insists that "investments" of up to $500 billion per annum would not "pose a major macroeconomic challenge" to nations accepting the call to fund the project. The group is made up of energy company executives, activists, investment bankers, Al Gore, and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of  funds, the Daily Caller reports. According to the ETC website, the group's goal is to "accelerate change towards low-carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius." The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy. The punishing taxes, they say, would cause the energy industry to seriously explore alternate energy sources and cut back use of fossil fuels. It recommends that the world cut emissions to a "net zero" by the year 2050 to hold back global heating. The group also calls for direct investment in green energy. ETC claims that the world must fund "investment in renewables and other low-carbon technologies some $6 trillion higher ($300 billion per year); while the largest required increases – of almost $9 trillion ($450 billion per year) – will be in more efficient energy saving equipment and buildings." ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement, which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval. The plan was to take effect in 2016, but since coming to office President Trump has put a hold on much of the country's compliance with the agreement. Trump has also begun considering whether or not to completely pull out of the agreement. Trump's Environmental Protection Agency chief, Scott Pruitt, has urged the president to exit the agreement and at least one climate scientist, Dr. Duane Thresher, has warned Trump not to cave in to his daughter's "climate change madness." Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com	False
154	motherjones	left_bias	2019-04-07	He united a biological and social vision for forestry, one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests.	Marshall's closing line argues for that perspective: "The time has come when we must discard the unsocial view that our woods are the lumbermen's and substitute the broader ideal that every acre of woodland in the country is rightly a part of the people's forests."	In articulating that vision, he made his socialist case plain: "The fundamental advantage of public ownership of forests over private ownership is that in the former social welfare is substituted for private gain as the major objective of management."	Much the way today's Green New Deal seeks to redress both economic and environmental impoverishment, Marshall sought to replace private profit with a broader public spiritedness that aimed for long-term stability, ending cut-and-run practices and ultimately strengthening communities.	One prominent example—Bob Marshall's argument for nationalizing forests during the 1930s—reveals how socialist solutions emerge from specific contexts and problems, not ideological bunkers.		Critics of the Green New Deal Rail Against Socialism. We've Seen This Before. This story was originally published by High Country News and is shared here as part of the Climate Desk collaboration. The Green New Deal and its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change. To accomplish this, they believe they must deploy the federal government, since it is the only institution large enough to coordinate and invest in the necessary policies. But the idea of expanding the role of government has attracted critics, who rail against socialism. To historians, this sounds familiar. This is not the first time socialism, new deals and the environment have intersected. During the catastrophe of the Great Depression of the 1930s, the federal government similarly attempted to ameliorate social and environmental harms by investing in people and places through the New Deal. Then, as now, critics dismissed it as socialism. The "socialist" sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding. One prominent example—Bob Marshall's argument for nationalizing forests during the 1930s—reveals how socialist solutions emerge from specific contexts and problems, not ideological bunkers. In Marshall's case, the dire state of private timberlands in the early 20th century prompted his call for reform. When massive problems develop, cross jurisdictional lines and are associated with market failures, big government responses can seem like the only possible solution. By the early 20th century, hundreds of years of unregulated cutting had ravaged the nation's forests, and Americans faced a crisis that demanded intervention. "Rocks and mountains may be ageless, but men and society are emphatically of the present, and they cannot wait for the slow process of nature to retrieve the catastrophe caused by their unthinking destructiveness," wrote Marshall, a forester for federal agencies throughout his career, a co-founder of The Wilderness Society and the person for whom Montana's Bob Marshall Wilderness Area is named.A massive evaluation of American forestry conducted by the Forest Service in 1932 both shaped and reflected Marshall's views. Appearing the next year, A National Plan for American Forestry, known as the Copeland Report, showed that private forests were failing. (The majority of the nation's timber came from privately held forests, just as it does today.) They burned more often, were not harvested to provide a "continual crop of timber," failed to protect watersheds and offered few recreational opportunities compared to public forests. They caused social problems, too, with lumber workers doing dangerous, transient jobs that resulted in mangled bodies and left hollowed-out towns behind. As Marshall saw it, "The private owner is thus responsible for almost every serious forest problem." So, Marshall argued that American timberlands should be publicly owned. In 1933, four years into the Depression and during the first year of Franklin D. Roosevelt's presidency, Marshall published The People's Forests, his own radical extension of the Copeland Report, which advocated for public ownership of practically all commercial forests in America. He was writing amid an economic catastrophe mirrored in the nation's wild and rural landscapes, where bankrupted farmers, out-of-work loggers and drought-driven refugees were common, not unlike today. Throughout The People's Forests, Marshall showed how private ownership, even when tempered by public regulation, fell short; only full public ownership could keep forests and communities healthy. He united a biological and social vision for forestry, one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests. In articulating that vision, he made his socialist case plain: "The fundamental advantage of public ownership of forests over private ownership is that in the former social welfare is substituted for private gain as the major objective of management." Much the way today's Green New Deal seeks to redress both economic and environmental impoverishment, Marshall sought to replace private profit with a broader public spiritedness that aimed for long-term stability, ending cut-and-run practices and ultimately strengthening communities. Marshall's call for reforms reflected an accelerating trend of expanding public lands in the 1930s, when the federal government acquired millions of acres for national parks, national forests and wildlife refuges. Newly passed laws, like the Migratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act (1934) and the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (1937), helped the government fund refuges, acquire property for conservation and bail out private owners who lived on wrecked lands. Starting around the same time and lasting until the 1950s, Forest Service administrators advocated for public regulation of logging on private land, principally citing concerns about declining timber production and the threat of fire on poorly managed parcels. Though ultimately unsuccessful, those efforts illustrated a push to establish stability amid unsettling crisis, a goal Marshall shared. When capitalism stumbles badly, producing degraded lands and gaping inequalities, socialistic solutions rise in popularity, because their incentives are not tied to profits. Marshall's closing line argues for that perspective: "The time has come when we must discard the unsocial view that our woods are the lumbermen's and substitute the broader ideal that every acre of woodland in the country is rightly a part of the people's forests." Shouting "socialist" as an epithet is a tired strategy, a failure to reckon with specific contexts and problems, whether it's damaged timberlands in the 1930s or rising sea levels today. The People's Forests and the Green New Deal highlight the ways social and environmental harms are woven together, a reminder that real solutions require a mutual untangling, and that — despite American history and politics' suspicion of true socialism — government necessarily holds many of the threads.	False
124	vox	left_bias	2019-12-12	This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	Meet the trees, get to know their superpowers, and learn how scientists are trying to protect them.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you, me, and the whole world.	And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster, not just locally but globally.		These 3 supertrees can protect us from climate collapse Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests, but three stand out: Brazil, Indonesia, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. These countries not only have the largest areas of tropical forest within their borders; they also have the highest rates of deforestation. Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests, but three stand out: Brazil, Indonesia, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. These countries not only have the largest areas of tropical forest within their borders; they also have the highest rates of deforestation. We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster, not just locally but globally. These trees play many ecological roles, but most impressive is how they produce rainfall, remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and support hundreds of other species. If these ecosystems collapse, the climate effects are likely to be irreversible. And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth. This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you, me, and the whole world. Meet the trees, get to know their superpowers, and learn how scientists are trying to protect them. This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	False
726	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-11	"It's going to be a gradual and shared transition."	Yet the announcement garnered praise from three environmental groups that teamed up to pressure BNP Paribas to curtail support for fossil fuels that pose a particular threat of exacerbating climate change.	"As an international bank, our role is to help drive the energy transition and contribute to the decarbonization of the economy."	For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing, an aggressive climate policy makes business sense.	The bank had not not yet calculated how many clients would be affected by the new policy, and could not immediately respond to questions about how much money is invested in the targeted sectors.		France's Biggest Bank Becomes The First To Cut Off Funding For Natural Gas Fracking BNP Paribas on Wednesday became the first big bank to pledge to stop financing natural gas fracking projects as part of a new policy cheered by environmentalists as having the greatest impact of any financial giant yet. Under the new policy, France's largest bank will refuse to lend to companies who generate more than half their revenue from fracked oil, gas or liquefied natural gas export terminals. The rules also apply to tar sands, considered one of the dirtiest sources of oil. Multinational banks, including BNP Paribas, began putting strict limits on funding for coal projects in 2015. At that point, coal was becoming an unprofitable investment, and banks faced mounting pressure from environmentalists to stop supporting the dirtiest fuels in the lead up the Paris climate agreement. Last month, JPMorgan Chase became the target of a new campaign urging it to end financing for companies that drill tar sands, a particularly dirty source of oil that forms the backbone of Canada's industry. Until now, no financial giant has clamped down on natural gas, which produces far less carbon dioxide than oil or coal. The fuel now provides most of the United States' electricity and is credited with reducing emissions by weaning the country off coal. That has allowed advocates to tout the gas as a critical tool in the transition from heavily-polluting fuels to renewable energy. But fracking ― an extraction technique that involves shooting a highly-pressurized chemical and sand-laced water into shale rock to extract oil and gas ― has become a lightning rod for environmentalists. It produces toxic wastewater and leaks emissions of methane, a far more most potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. And the process of liquefying natural gas from vapor requires so much energy it ends up being as dirty as coal." he scientific literature on the climate impact of gas, especially fracked gas, is emerging," Jason Disterhoft, a senior campaigner at Rainforest Action Network, told HuffPost by phone. Now that the prices of solar and wind energy were plummeting, there's less need to use natural gas as a stepping stone between dirtier fossil fuels and renewables, he added. BNP Paribas offered few details on its new policy, including when it would go into effect, though it said it should have an update by the end of the year. Europe's second largest bank also said that companies could continue to receive backing if they lower the amount of revenue earned from fracking or tar sands to less than half their business. The exact ratio has not yet been decided, a spokeswoman said." ven though we're going to have this policy in place doesn't mean at the same time we'll right away cut all the clients that don't fall under it," Mylene Benmoussa, a BNP Paribas spokeswoman, told HuffPost by phone on Wednesday. "It's going to be a gradual and shared transition." The bank had not not yet calculated how many clients would be affected by the new policy, and could not immediately respond to questions about how much money is invested in the targeted sectors. France banned fracking in 2011. The country generates 11 percent of its electricity from gas, according to data from RTE, the French transmission operator. And the government in Paris announced plans last month to prohibit oil and gas production by 2040. For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing, an aggressive climate policy makes business sense. Yet the announcement garnered praise from three environmental groups that teamed up to pressure BNP Paribas to curtail support for fossil fuels that pose a particular threat of exacerbating climate change. The trio includes the San Francisco-based Rainforest Action Network, the French chapter of Friends of Earth, and Save the Rio Grande Valley from Liquefied Natural Gas, a local Texas group protesting the construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal in the state's southern region. Still, the move represents a public relations victory for a bank plagued by scandals in recent years. In 2015, the company was ordered to pay $8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan, Cuba and Iran. In June, three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800,000 people. In July, the Federal Reserve fined the firm $246 million for its "unsafe and unsound practices" in foreign currency trading division, failing to crack down on employees who violated rules on sharing information with competitors." e're a long-standing partner to the energy sector and we're determined to support the transition to a more sustainable world," BNP Paribas CEO Jean-Laurent Bonnafé said in a statement. "As an international bank, our role is to help drive the energy transition and contribute to the decarbonization of the economy."	False
168	usatoday	left_center_bias	2019-02-28	While calling Wheeler "certainly qualified for this position," Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator "are not in the best interest of our environment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	"As you can see, we're continuing the president's agenda post-haste."	It's a sad day for public health and the EPA, but mission accomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries," Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, said in a statement following the vote.	"They have longed for one of their own to call the shots at the agency, and now they finally have their man in Andrew Wheeler."	Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as Pruitt, Wheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama-era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change."		Andrew Wheeler, who&apos;s been leading Trump deregulatory charge, confirmed by Senate as EPA chief WASHINGTON – Andrew Wheeler is no longer the acting director of the EPA following the Senate's vote Thursday to make him the official head of the environmental regulatory agency. The Senate narrowly confirmed Wheeler 52-47, largely along party lines with Republicans in support and Democrats against him. While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda, Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and, for the first time, begin regulating a set of harmful chemicals found in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans." Mr. Wheeler has proven his ability to advance pragmatic solutions to pressing environmental challenges," Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said on the Senate floor before the vote. Maine Sen. Susan Collins was the lone Republican to oppose Wheeler's confirmation. While calling Wheeler "certainly qualified for this position," Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator "are not in the best interest of our environment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation."A former EPA bureaucrat who also served as an influential Capitol Hill staffer and an energy lobbyist, Wheeler had been acting administrator of the agency since July when he replaced Scott Pruitt who left under an ethical cloud. When Trump nominated Wheeler for the official post in November, the president praised him for performing "a fantastic job." Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as Pruitt, Wheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama-era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change." It's a sad day for public health and the EPA, but mission accomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries," Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, said in a statement following the vote. "They have longed for one of their own to call the shots at the agency, and now they finally have their man in Andrew Wheeler." At his confirmation hearing in January, Senate Democrats grilled Wheeler about his agency's proposals to roll back mercury emissions standards, weaken clean water regulations and scrap Obama-era climate change rules. Related: President Trump made the right pick for EPA: Sen. BarrassoShortly after taking over in July, Wheeler's EPA moved ahead with a plan to do away with the Obama-era Clean Power Plan and replace it with a proposed rule to set state guidelines for power-plant emissions of greenhouse gases that contribute to a warming planet. And his agency finalized revisions to a 2015 Obama-era rule regulating the disposal of coal ash that gives states and utilities what he called "much needed flexibility" to manage their waste. He also recommended freezing miles-per-gallon standards for cars and light trucks after the 2020 model year and preventing California and other states from setting tougher standards, saying it will improve safety and keep prices lower for consumers." We haven't slowed down and we haven't missed a step," Wheeler told senators in August. "As you can see, we're continuing the president's agenda post-haste."	False
228	npr	left_center_bias	2019-11-30	His hope is that the concept will spread here.	This has created an incentive for food businesses to participate in the waste-to-energy initiative.	"It's made us more sustainable — environmentally [and] also economically."	"We really do like the system," she says.	It's an industrial-strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell, explains Karen Franczyk, who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region.		Chew On This: Farmers Are Using Food Waste To Make Electricity Chew On This: Farmers Are Using Food Waste To Make ElectricityThis story was produced as part of a collaboration with the PBS NewsHourAs the season of big holiday meals kicks off, it's as good a time as any to reflect on just how much food goes to waste. If you piled up all the food that's not eaten over the course of a year in the U.S., it would be enough to fill a skyscraper in Chicago about 44 times, according to an estimate from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. And, when all this food rots in a landfill, it emits methane, a powerful greenhouse gas that contributes to climate change. In fact, a recent report from the United Nations from a panel of climate experts estimates that up to 10 percent of all human-made greenhouse gas emissions are linked to food waste. So, here's one solution to the problem: Dairy farmers in Massachusetts are using food waste to create electricity. They feed waste into anaerobic digesters, built and operated by Vanguard Renewables, which capture the methane emissions and make renewable energy. The process begins by gathering wasted food from around the state, including from many Whole Foods locations. We visited the chain's store in Shrewsbury, Mass., which has installed a Grind2Energy system. It's an industrial-strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell, explains Karen Franczyk, who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region. The machine will grind up all kinds of food waste — "everything from bones, we put whole fish in here, to vegetables to dry items like rice or grains," Franczyk says as the grinder is loaded. It also takes frying fats and greases. While Whole Foods donates a lot of surplus food to food banks, there's a lot waste left over. Much of it is generated from prepping prepared foods. Just as when you cook in your own kitchen, there are lots of bits that remain, such as onion or carrot peel, rinds, stalks or meat scraps. The grinder turns all these bits into a slurry. "It really becomes kind of a liquefied food waste," Franczyk says. From here, the waste is loaded into a truck and sent to an anaerobic digester. "There's no question it's better than putting it in the trash," Franczyk says. She says the chain is committed to diverting as much waste as possible and aims for zero waste. In addition to food donations, Whole Foods composts; this waste-to-energy system is yet another way to meet its goal. "We really do like the system," she says. We visited Bar-Way Farm, Inc. in Deerfield, Mass. Owner Peter Melnik, a fourth-generation dairy farmer, showed us how his anaerobic digester, which is installed next to his dairy barn, works." We presently take in about a 100 tons [of waste], which is about three tractor-trailer loads, every day," Melnik says. In addition to all the food waste from Whole Foods, he gets whey from a Cabot Creamery in the area, as well as waste from a local brewery and a juice plant. In the digester, he combines all of this waste with manure from his cows. The mixture cooks at about 105 degrees Fahrenheit. As the methane is released, it rises to the top of a large red tank with a black bubble-shaped dome." We capture the gas in that bubble. Then we suck it into a big motor," Melnik explains. Unlike other engines that run on diesel or gasoline, this engine runs on methane." This turns a big generator, which is creating one megawatt of electricity" continuously, Melnik says — enough to power more than just his farm. "We only use about 10 percent of what we make, and the rest is fed onto the [electricity] grid," Melnik explains. It's enough to power about 1,500 homes. He says times are tough for dairy farmers, so this gives him a new stream of revenue. Vanguard pays him rental fees for having the anaerobic digester on his farm. In addition, he's able to use the liquids left over from the process as fertilizer on his fields." The digester has been a home run for us," Melnik says. "It's made us more sustainable — environmentally [and] also economically." Vanguard Renewables hopes to expand its operations in the state and elsewhere. "There's more than enough food waste in Massachusetts to feed all of our five digesters, plus many more," says CEO John Hanselman. Massachusetts has a state law that prohibits the disposal of commercial organic waste — including food — by businesses and institutions that generate at least one ton of this waste per week. This has created an incentive for food businesses to participate in the waste-to-energy initiative. Hanselman points to Europe, where there are thousands of digesters in operation. His hope is that the concept will spread here. "The food waste recycling through anaerobic digestion could be done in every part of the country," Hanselman says. The company is currently building an anaerobic digester on a farm in Vermont. The gas produced there will be piped to Middlebury College, which will help the college reduce its carbon footprint.	False
52	nationalreview	right_bias	2019-04-24	The most effective environmental efforts are often small, personal actions in which people have skin in the game.	Those who considered themselves "skeptical" of climate change "were most likely to report engaging in individual-level pro-environmental behaviors."	Clever hashtags are generated.	We should make it clear that personal environmental stewardship is not only more effective, it is a more moral way to live.	Every Earth Day, we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues.	As a conservative who has worked in environmental policy for two decades, I have been frustrated watching as ideological fellow travelers avoid environmental topics, even as they privately express their commitment to environmental stewardship. <sep> A study by researchers at the University of Michigan and Cornell University found that those who are "highly concerned" about climate change are "least likely to report individual-level actions" to reduce their environmental impact. <sep> Alarmist slogans are flaunted. <sep> Individual actions are mere "bollocks," useless gestures. <sep> This isn't just a theory. <sep> Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference. <sep> In a video that was shared widely, including by celebrities such as James Corden, the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the "big, structural, political economic stuff." <sep> At the same time, he dismisses "pathetic, micro-consumerist bollocks which just isn't going to get us anywhere." <sep> Monbiot concludes that we need to "go straight to the heart of capitalism and overthrow it." <sep> Instead, the improvement is gradual and constant, as individuals and businesses find ways to squeeze a bit more out of their energy use. <sep> 	Environmental Hypocrites of the Left Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day blusterGeorge Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self-righteous without making any real sacrifice. In a video that was shared widely, including by celebrities such as James Corden, the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the "big, structural, political economic stuff." Monbiot concludes that we need to "go straight to the heart of capitalism and overthrow it." At the same time, he dismisses "pathetic, micro-consumerist bollocks which just isn't going to get us anywhere." This is absolution for those who want to feel green but can't be bothered with going to the effort and expense of actually living their own values. Publicly advocating the "do as I say, not as I do" approach reinforces the reality that conservatives tend to live out the environmental ethic that the Left only preaches. As a conservative who has worked in environmental policy for two decades, I have been frustrated watching as ideological fellow travelers avoid environmental topics, even as they privately express their commitment to environmental stewardship. As the Left becomes more detached from responsible and effective environmental solutions, conservatives should confidently fill the void. One reason conservatives do not engage is that environmentalism has become synonymous with horrible government policy. Every Earth Day, we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues. Clever hashtags are generated. Alarmist slogans are flaunted. Naked people glue themselves to park benches. And all who disagree with the demands for more government power are denigrated as "deniers." The other 364 days of the year, however, people on the left do little in their daily lives to justify all that environmental browbeating. A study by researchers at the University of Michigan and Cornell University found that those who are "highly concerned" about climate change are "least likely to report individual-level actions" to reduce their environmental impact. Those who considered themselves "skeptical" of climate change "were most likely to report engaging in individual-level pro-environmental behaviors." To be sure, not all conservatives are skeptical of climate change, but generally, we aren't nearly as alarmist about climate change or other environmental issues, even when we recognize the risk. That gap between the Left's loud talk and their unwillingness to make personal sacrifices is not an accident. It is now part of their dogma. Individual actions are mere "bollocks," useless gestures. Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference. This dichotomy is evident in my home state of Washington, where politicians pride themselves on showing "leadership" in the effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. This year, our legislature enacted a law requiring the state to meet a 100 percent renewable-energy target by 2045. Environmental activists tweeted their support, saying they "demand action now" and worrying about the climate crisis. Ironically, though, many who demand action do little of it themselves. For only a few dollars a month, anyone who supports renewable energy can already buy renewable-energy credits (RECs), ensuring that there is enough renewable energy on the grid to cover their personal use. I asked one politician pushing for the 100 percent–renewable requirement if she buys RECs to cover her environmental impact. She admitted that she does not and has no plans to do so. This is consistent with the message of Monbiot and political leaders pushing the Green New Deal. Personal sacrifice is of little consequence, so why even try? Even as they call for an end to air travel, politicians who demand we impose lifestyle change have not curtailed their own carbon-producing travel, despite living in the era of HD video conferencing. The most effective environmental efforts are often small, personal actions in which people have skin in the game. Farmers find ways to conserve water because waste costs money. Aluminum cans are lighter today because it saves resources and they cost less to ship. Homeowners and businesses conserve energy because they pay the price for every kilowatt-hour. When they don't save, they change course, unlike politicians who fear public embarrassment and throw good money after bad. This isn't just a theory. The amount of energy per unit of GDP in the United States has fallen steadily for several decades. There are no sharp drops. Instead, the improvement is gradual and constant, as individuals and businesses find ways to squeeze a bit more out of their energy use. Politicians can lecture all they want, but these are truly the front lines of environmental stewardship. As Earth Day 2019 came and went, the pattern of environmentalists demanding action that they themselves won't take predictably repeated itself. The pattern of conservatives' avoiding talk of environmental stewardship even as they live it every day, however, is a pattern we should break. Effective environmental policy doesn't start with politicians and publicity stunts. Conservatives understand this. We should make it clear that personal environmental stewardship is not only more effective, it is a more moral way to live.	True
210	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-09-05	"It's the best way to send a pricing signal."	In response to a question from Priya Subberwal, a New York University student, Mr. O'Rourke made clear that he prefers cap-and-trade over a straight tax on carbon."	reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat, I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it, and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon," he said.	Asylum laws, Mr. O'Rourke said, should "include those who have been impacted by climate change.	I think the best possible path to do that is through a cap and trade system" he said.		Beto O'Rourke Revives Cap-and-Trade Idea for Carbon Emissions We haven't heard much about a national cap-and-trade system to curb carbon emissions since plans for one died in Congress about a decade ago. But tonight at the CNN climate forum, Beto O'Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, revived the idea as his preferred method of pricing carbon. Under such a system, the government issues a limited number of "allowances" or permits to companies and other entities that emit carbon dioxide, essentially creating a "cap" on emissions. California and states across the Eastern Seaboard have used the system for the past several years to reduce emissions from the power sector. In the $5 trillion climate plan that Mr. O'Rourke released in April, he indicated he would pursue some type of carbon pricing to reach his goal of net-zero emissions by 2050, but didn't specify an approach. In response to a question from Priya Subberwal, a New York University student, Mr. O'Rourke made clear that he prefers cap-and-trade over a straight tax on carbon." e should certainly price carbon. I think the best possible path to do that is through a cap and trade system" he said. "It's the best way to send a pricing signal." The revenue from a cap-and-trade program, he said, would be reinvested in helping communities move toward clean energy. Mr. O'Rourke promised to — surprise, surprise — re-enter the Paris agreement on "Day 1." He also pledged to "lead the world in going well beyond the Paris climate agreement," prevent new oil and gas leases on federal lands and bring back Obama-era climate regulations like fuel economy standards and restrictions on coal-fired power plants. The former Texas congressman was also one of the few candidates who explicitly tied Hurricane Dorian to newly proposed policies. He called for extending temporary protected status "to anyone who wants to seek shelter here" from the Bahamas, which has been overwhelmed by the hurricane. Asylum laws, Mr. O'Rourke said, should "include those who have been impacted by climate change. It's the right thing to do." Mr. O'Rourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas. He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator, Don Lemon, about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation. One area where the Texan came down strong: No limits on the meat industry, despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use."  reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat, I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it, and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon," he said.	False
832	Daily Mail	questionable_source	2017-04-23	Jobs matter!	The president's statement focused on the beauty of nature and the importance of preserving it for future generations.	'By comparison, last year President Obama's message in 2016 took on an urgent tone and said: 'Human activity is disrupting the climate, and the challenge of combating climate change is one that will define the contours of our time.	Many of the signs at the rallies referenced climate change specifically.	'In a flurry of other tweets, he criticized President Obama for prioritizing the environment over other issues such as 'ISIS and Ebola.		Trump doesn't say 'climate change' in Earth Day message President Donald Trump's Earth Day message greatly differed in tone from his predecessor by not mentioning climate change. The president's statement focused on the beauty of nature and the importance of preserving it for future generations. He said in the second paragraph 'economic growth enhances environmental protection.'This point was reiterated later in a somewhat defensive tweet. Trump said: 'I am committed to keeping our air and water clean but always remember that economic growth enhances environmental protection. Jobs matter!'By comparison, last year President Obama's message in 2016 took on an urgent tone and said: 'Human activity is disrupting the climate, and the challenge of combating climate change is one that will define the contours of our time.'However Obama did not mention climate change in 2010 or 2012 statements, important midterm and general election years, according to AOL. President Bush also pointed to climate change in his 2009 Earth Day statement: 'We are taking positive steps to confront the important challenge of climate change. Our work is not done.'President Trump's administration, executive orders and tweets indicate he is not a believer in climate change. In 2013 on a chilly day at Trump Tower, he tweeted:  'Another freezing day in the Spring - what is going on with "global warming"? Good move changing the name to "climate change" - sad!'In a flurry of other tweets, he criticized President Obama for prioritizing the environment over other issues such as 'ISIS and Ebola.'On Earth Day, thousands of scientists, students and research advocates marched around the world in protest of Trump's research budget cuts. Many of the signs at the rallies referenced climate change specifically. On Friday, Trump asked the Surgeon General Dr Vivek Murthy to resign from his post. Murthy previously spoke out against climate changed and called it a serious danger to public health.	False
112	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-09-05	He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy, which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species."	Questions posed to candidates on Wednesday varied, and not all were asked about public land and conservation.	But nearly all have policy proposals that drive home the need for the nation to be a better environmental steward.	The plan calls for "ensuring that public lands, waters, and oceans are protected" and "restoring and protecting threatened, endangered, and fragile ecosystems."	"I've connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change."		Public Land Gets Its Moment At The Climate Town Hall A federal report last year found that about a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions in the United States come from fossil fuel extraction on federal land. As the Trump administration continues its push to expand such development, top candidates for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination agree that America's public land must be a tool in the fight against climate change, not a contributor to the problem. During CNN's marathon town hall on climate change Wednesday, candidates vowed to end oil, gas and coal leasing on federal land as part of a shared goal to decarbonizing the economy and prevent catastrophic warming. Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) and former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro said they would also work to expand federally protected acreage." e actually need to undo the damage that this administration has done and then expand the lands that we're protecting in our country," Castro said. "We can do that." Most of the 10 Democratic candidates who appeared on stage Wednesday have released climate plans that call for reversing Trump's sweeping land rollbacks, safeguarding new sites or fully funding the popular Land and Water Conservation Fund, which uses offshore fossil-fuel revenue to protect natural areas and water resources. Castro, Harris, Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) and former Vice President Joe Biden have all committed to working toward protecting 30% of America's land and water by 2030." he next president must be ready to lead the climate response we need to see on our shared lands and waters," Huntley said. "If we are going to keep pace with what science demands, we must reduce greenhouse gas emissions on our public lands while also restoring protections for threatened forests, from the Southern Appalachians to Alaska's Tongass" National Forest. Ahead of Wednesday's forum, Harris released a $10 trillion climate plan that calls for "diversifying the marine and land ecosystems that we protect and targeting biodiversity hotspots and critical wildlife corridors," as well as using existing presidential authorities to set aside critical landscapes. Biden's plan promises to permanently protect areas like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge ― a pristine Alaska wilderness that the Trump administration is working to open to oil drilling ― and to set up programs to reforest and expand renewable energy on federal lands. Castro's $10 trillion climate plan, also released this week, calls for designating new national monuments, parks and wildlife refuge and outlines a so-called "Green Opportunity Corps" that would put 15,000 young adults to work in areas like public land conservation. He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy, which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species." e need to connect the dots," Castro said Wednesday. "I've connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change." Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) was not asked Wednesday about how she would approach America's public lands and waters, despite being the only candidate to release a comprehensive plan specific to protecting them. Her policy vision, unveiled in April, includes overturning Trump's land rollbacks, a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land, and recruiting 10,000 youth and veterans for a "21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps." It's not enough to end our public lands' contribution to climate change," Warren wrote in an announcement at the time. "We have an enormous opportunity to make them a part of the climate solution, and for both economic and environmental reasons, we should take it." All 10 candidates that participated in the CNN climate forum have voiced support for the Green New Deal, the landmark resolution unveiled in February by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) and Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) and that outlined lofty goals of reaching net-zero emissions by midcentury. Supporters of the Green New Deal have said public land is key to its success. The plan calls for "ensuring that public lands, waters, and oceans are protected" and "restoring and protecting threatened, endangered, and fragile ecosystems." Questions posed to candidates on Wednesday varied, and not all were asked about public land and conservation. But nearly all have policy proposals that drive home the need for the nation to be a better environmental steward. Former Rep. Beto O'Rourke (Texas) says he would go beyond previous presidents to "protect our most wild, beautiful, and biodiverse places for generations to come — including more of the Arctic and of our sensitive landscapes and seascapes than ever before."	False
771	Fusion	left_center_bias	2017-05-18	They&#8217;re much more dramatic here, and they&#8217;re going to get more dramatic where we live as well.&#8221;	And we need to take heed of that.	Dr. Matt Amesbury, also of the University of Exeter, said there were two main findings to take from their new study, scale and temperature sensitivity:Before now, studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites, we've been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula.	&#8220;What surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.&#8221;Charman said their evidence shows just how fast Antarctic land surface can change along with climactic changes.	Or so it has been for thousands of years.		Antarctica's plant life is rapidly expanding due to climate change A Green Island moss bank with icebergs. Credit: Matt AmesburyAntarctica is a cold, white continent at the bottom of the world. Or so it has been for thousands of years. New evidence points to a sharp increase in biological activity in recent decades across the Antarctic Peninsula, resulting in large swaths of newfound greenery. Published in the journal Current Biology, a new study found major increases in Antarctic moss growth over the past 50 years, which the team of researchers attributes to temperature rises in the region. &#8220;It's another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures,&#8221; said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter, who led the research project. &#8220;What surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.&#8221;Charman said their evidence shows just how fast Antarctic land surface can change along with climactic changes. The Antarctic Peninsula is among the most rapidly warming areas in the world, with temperatures having increased by almost three degrees Celsius over the last 50 years. In March, a research base near the northern tip of the Antarctic peninsula set a heat record of 17.5 degrees Celsius (63.5° Fahrenheit). Currently, plant life only exists on about 0.3% of Antarctica. Charman said that, while as the Arctic warms a variety of plant life and soil organisms can migrate north, in Antarctica there are no nearby land areas for species to colonize from. But while no new natural plant life is anticipated, existing plant life such as Antarctic hairgrass and Antarctic pearlwort could occupy new ice-free ground as glaciers retreat. Dr. Matt Amesbury, also of the University of Exeter, said there were two main findings to take from their new study, scale and temperature sensitivity:Before now, studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites, we've been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula. The second important point is our finding which suggests that moss growth has been highly sensitive to temperature change since the 1950s—under future warming scenarios, this means we are likely to see a greening of the Antarctic Peninsula, both in terms of further increases in growth rates and also expansion of mosses and other plant life.  A Green Island moss bank with icebergs. Credit: Matt AmesburyWhile weather records only began in the 1950s in Antarctica, moss cores can provide a much older picture of how climate change has influenced biology in this frigid part of the world. Going forward, the researchers, who received funding from the Natural Environment Research Council, plan to examine core records dating back thousands of years to see how climate change affected the ecosystem before human activity was part of the picture. In March, James McClintock, a marine biologist with the University of Alabama at Birmingham and author of Lost Antarctica: Adventures In A Disappearing Land, told NPR that in Antarctica it&#8217;s possible to really see the impacts of climate change with your own eyes.&#8220;You know, we&#8217;re seeing changes in whole ecologies, whole communities down here that probably wouldn&#8217;t be unusual over millennia,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But here, they&#8217;re happening over a few decades. I really believe this is sort of the bellwether, if you will, of climate change environments on our planet. And we need to take heed of that. We&#8217;re seeing changes at home. They&#8217;re much more dramatic here, and they&#8217;re going to get more dramatic where we live as well.&#8221;	False
78	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-10-08	One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individual's environmental impact on the planet.	"We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it, at the exact and right time it is needed."	his joint experiment marks a significant first step toward achieving our vision to ensure food security for generations to come, while preserving our natural resources."	The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production.	The method relies on mimicking a natural process of muscle-tissue regeneration occurring inside a cow's body.		First meat grown in space lab 248 miles from Earth... Lab-grown meat has been successfully cultured in space for the first time. The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station, 248 miles (399 km) away from any natural resources. Bovine cells were harvested on Earth and taken to space, where they were grown into small-scale muscle tissue using a 3D bioprinter. The method relies on mimicking a natural process of muscle-tissue regeneration occurring inside a cow's body. The experiment took place on 26 September on the Russian segment of the space station, and involved the assembly of small-scale muscle tissue in a 3D bioprinter under controlled microgravity conditions. In future the technique could be used to provide meat for people living on the space station. The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production. In December, Aleph Farms announced it had produced a prototype "strip" of steak grown from cells in the lab in two weeks, although it admitted the taste needed to be improved." e are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime, anywhere, in any condition," said Didier Toubia, co-founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms. "We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it, at the exact and right time it is needed." In space, we don't have 10,000 or 15,000 litres of water available to produce 1kg of beef," added Toubia." his joint experiment marks a significant first step toward achieving our vision to ensure food security for generations to come, while preserving our natural resources." Recent scientific studies have found that huge reductions in meat-eating are essential in order to cut greenhouse gas emissions and avoid dangerous climate change. One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individual's environmental impact on the planet.	False
824	Daily Mail	questionable_source	2017-06-01	'This wasn't about climate.	'It simply sounds like a transfer of wealth from the United States to other countries.	It was about U.S. money going to other countries.	'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket, and you make them put it back in, they're not going to be happy.	'Ross said much of the predicted backlash from other countries that drive global warming concerns would be rooted in economics, not science.		Ross v. Tillerson: Paris climate split in Trump's cabinet U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross on Thursday openly dismissed concerns raised by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson about President Donald Trump's decision to exit the Paris Climate Treaty. Tillerson, a former ExxonMobil CEO, told senators during his January confirmation hearing that the U.S. should stay engaged in global warming mitigation instead of walking away.'It's important that the U.S. maintains its seat at the table about how to address the threat of climate change, which does require a global response,' Tillerson said then. And he has fretted privately to confidants that withdrawing from the Paris deal could both undercut America's credibility on other multilateral agreements and impair relationships with foreign allies. The U.S. commerce chief told Fox News, just minutes after Trump blasted the climate agreement as a wealth-transfer gimmick, that Tillerson is wrong.'I have a great deal of respect for Secretary Tillerson. I happen to disagree strongly with him on this particular issue.'He added that 'I just don't see the connection, frankly,' between the Paris pullout and America's trustworthiness in future negotiations.'I don't agree with that at all. There's no reason to make one agreement [connect] with another,' Ross said, using the Trans-Pacific Partnership as Exhibit A.'The sky didn't fall when we pulled out of TPP and the sky certainly won't fall now that we've pulled out of the Paris Accord,' he said. 'I think the president is right.'Ross said much of the predicted backlash from other countries that drive global warming concerns would be rooted in economics, not science.'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket, and you make them put it back in, they're not going to be happy. And that's what's happening here,' he said.'This wasn't about climate. It was about U.S. money going to other countries.'Ross has firmly rooted himself in the train of thought that sees climate change agreements as thinly veiled pretexts for demanding global payouts from Washington and a free ride for its trade adversaries.'The president made clear we already are far ahead of other countries in terms of CO2 reduction,' Ross said, describing U.S. efforts to reduce carbon outputs.'And how can it be an effective deal when it allows China and India, two of the major polluters, to keep increasing their pollution for another decade or two?''That doesn't sound to me like a climate accord,' he said. 'It simply sounds like a transfer of wealth from the United States to other countries.'Tillerson, on the other hand, has aggressively pushed for greater recognition of America's obligation to lead the charge. Three weeks ago he signed an international document establishing the importance of the Paris Treaty in tackling climate change. The Fairbanks Declaration was adopted at the meeting by the members of the Arctic Council, whose members – like the U.S. – have territory above the Arctic Circle. The declaration says that the Arctic 'is warming at more than twice the rate of the global average, resulting in widespread social, environmental, and economic impacts in the Arctic and worldwide.'Last year, just one day before Trump was elected, Tillerson told a conference in Abu Dhabi that 'at ExxonMobil, we share the view that the risks of climate change are serious and warrant thoughtful action. Addressing these risks requires broad-based, practical solutions around the world.''Importantly, as a result of the Paris agreement, both developed and developing countries are now working together to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions,' he said then, 'while recognizing differing national responsibilities, capacities and circumstances.'Tillerson, who met with the president on Wednesday in a last-ditch effort to change his mind about pulling out of the Paris Accord, did not attend Thursday's Rose Garden announcement that America's participation was at an end.	False
136	politicususa	left_bias	2019-04-13	Asked whether he was concerned that the EPA may be out of synch with polls showing an overwhelming number of young people believe climate change should be a priority issue, Wheeler was dismissive."	es, climate is an issue and we are working to address it, but I think water is a bigger issue," he said.	do fear that because so many people only talked about climate change.	You're right, there could very well be a new generation coming up saying that's the only environmental issue – and it's not," he said.	Wheeler said he believes climate change is a problem, but that it had been overblown by former President Barack Obama's administration – at the expense of other bigger issues like water quality."		Trump's Environmental Protection Agency chief says climate is not a top priority (Reuters) – The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will unveil a proposal to speed state-level permitting decisions for energy infrastructure projects soon, the agency's chief told Reuters on Thursday, blasting states that have blocked coal terminals and gas pipelines on environmental grounds. President Donald Trump is seeking to boost domestic fossil fuels production over the objections of Democrats and environmentalists concerned about pollution and climate change. On Wednesday he issued a pair of executive orders targeting the power of states to delay energy projects." e started working on it in advance, so we hope to have something out soon," EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in an interview. He was unable to provide a precise timeline. Based on Trump's orders, Wheeler's EPA has been tasked with clarifying a section of the U.S. Clean Water Act that has allowed states like New York and Washington to delay projects in recent years. New York has used the section to delay pipelines that would bring natural gas to New England, for example, and Washington state has stopped coal export terminals that would open the Asian market for struggling coal companies in Wyoming and other landlocked western states." hey are trying to make international environmental policy," Wheeler said of Washington state, whose governor, Democrat Jay Inslee, is running for president on a climate change-focused platform. "They're trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used." Wheeler said New York, which amid strong public pressure denied a clean water act permit for construction of a natural gas pipeline to New England, is forcing that region "to use Russian-produced natural gas." We are importing Russian natural gas which is not produced in an environmentally conscious manner. If the states that are blocking the pipelines were truly concerned about the environment, they would look to where the natural gas would be coming from… I think it's very short-sighted," he said. Wheeler said the EPA would not prevent a state from vetoing a project, but would clarify the parameters they should be able to consider, and the length of time they have to do so. He also said that California is playing politics in its fight with the EPA to preserve its more stringent vehicle emission standards as the national standard. Wheeler said he believes climate change is a problem, but that it had been overblown by former President Barack Obama's administration – at the expense of other bigger issues like water quality." es, climate is an issue and we are working to address it, but I think water is a bigger issue," he said. Wheeler dismissed the findings of a report released earlier this week by EPA scientists in the journal Nature Climate Change that detailed the scale and urgency of climate change. He said while he encouraged EPA scientists to carry out and publish research, he stressed the recent paper "did not reflect EPA policy." Environmental groups say the EPA's replacement of an Obama-era rule limiting carbon emissions from power plants would likely lead to increased emissions by allowing older, more polluting coal plants to operate longer. Asked whether the replacement – the Affordable Clean Energy rule, which gives states responsibility for regulating emissions – is stringent enough, Wheeler said it adheres to the parameters of federal law."  think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and one that will be held up in court," he said. Several Democrats challenging Trump in the 2020 election have made climate change a top-tier issue, embracing aggressive policy platforms like the Green New Deal calling for an end of fossil fuels use. Asked whether he was concerned that the EPA may be out of synch with polls showing an overwhelming number of young people believe climate change should be a priority issue, Wheeler was dismissive."  do fear that because so many people only talked about climate change. You're right, there could very well be a new generation coming up saying that's the only environmental issue – and it's not," he said.	False
634	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-05-20	"I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world, and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories."	For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	I don't think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale," Terence Hughes, a retired glaciologist told Gillis.	Gillis points to recent research suggesting "the collapse of the ice sheet will become inevitable," likening the projected 160-foot sea-level rise to flood stories from the Epic of Gilgamesh to the Bible's Old Testament."		'Potential Apocalypse': NYT Warns Of Global Warming Floods Of Biblical Proportions The New York Times has taken warnings about global warming to a whole new level, publishing a three-part series suggesting a "potential apocalypse" from melting ice sheets if humans keep pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere." f that ice sheet were to disintegrate, it could raise the level of the sea by more than 160 feet — a potential apocalypse, depending on exactly how fast it happened," NYT reporter Justin Gillis wrote of what some scientists predict could happen to Antarctica. Gillis points to recent research suggesting "the collapse of the ice sheet will become inevitable," likening the projected 160-foot sea-level rise to flood stories from the Epic of Gilgamesh to the Bible's Old Testament." n the Epic of Gilgamesh, waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened, too," Gillis wrote, "In India's version, Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat, carrying seeds. In the Bible, God orders Noah to carry two of every living creature on his ark." I don't think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale," Terence Hughes, a retired glaciologist told Gillis. "I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world, and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories." That flooding would have occurred at the end of the last ice age," Gillis reported. Of course he left out the part about Antarctic ice sheet melting taking place over a couple thousands years. Now, the research Gillis points to is a worst-scenario based on a Parallel Ice Sheet Model, as reported by scientists in a 2015 study. Models can be useful tools to test complex climate interactions, but they are still projections, not facts. That 2015 study found "half the Antarctic ice sheet would melt or fall into the sea in the first thousand years" based on model projections, according to a previous NYT report. The first installment of Gillis's three-part series claimed Antarctica "may have entered the early stages of an unstoppable disintegration," but later in the series admitted the glacier NYT reporters toured with scientists "seems stable now." Even so, the effects of any current global warming on Antarctica are unclear. The South Pole's western ice sheet has been shedding mass for decades, but part of that has to do with underground volcanic activity and the fact the ice sheet rests on water. Recent evidence suggests the Antarctic peninsula has been cooling since the late 1990s. A recent study found the region "has shifted from a warming trend of 0.32 °C/decade during 1979–1997 to a cooling trend of − 0.47 °C/decade during 1999–2014." Antarctica's eastern ice sheet seems more stable, and may have even been gaining mass in recent decades.A 2015 study by NASA found Antarctica's ice sheet increased in mass from 1992 to 2008. The study found ice gains in Eastern Antarctica offset ice loss from the west. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
873	RT	questionable_source	2017-09-12	com.	However, there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers.	US hurricanes: Causes, trends & what the future holds (VIDEO) Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma, RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?The 2017 hurricane season has already seen Texas rocked by Harvey and Florida battered by Irma, and there are concerns that Jose, which is currently lashing the Caribbean, could hit the US east coast.	'Tropical waves' of air interact with the warm equatorial water of the Atlantic as they head west, prompting columns of warm moist air to rise from the ocean and create an ideal environment to develop into a full-blown hurricane.	However, expects it to result in more intense tropical cyclones globally with substantially higher rainfall rates by the end of the 21st century.		US hurricanes: Causes, trends & what the future holds (VIDEO) Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma, RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?The 2017 hurricane season has already seen Texas rocked by Harvey and Florida battered by Irma, and there are concerns that Jose, which is currently lashing the Caribbean, could hit the US east coast. While September is the most active month for hurricanes worldwide, the North Atlantic hurricane season is set to continue until November 30, raising the question – where are these monster storms originating?READ MORE: 4 dead as Hurricane Irma rocks Florida, leaving 3.5mn without power (PHOTOS, VIDEOS)Most of the major hurricanes that have impacted the US originated in Cape Verde – a nation on a volcanic archipelago off the northwest coast of Africa – according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The interaction between the hot dry air of the Sahara Desert and the cooler, more humid air from the Gulf of Guinea below creates high-altitude winds known as the African Easterly Jet. Blowing from east to west across Africa, the winds form clusters of thunderstorms once the waves of air have enough moisture, lift, and instability. The storms typically form every two to three days in a region near Cape Verde, but it is not until the period between summer and autumn that conditions become favorable for the development of tropical cyclones.'Tropical waves' of air interact with the warm equatorial water of the Atlantic as they head west, prompting columns of warm moist air to rise from the ocean and create an ideal environment to develop into a full-blown hurricane. However, if the Saharan Air Layer, commonly known as Saharan dust, is in the vicinity at the time it can weaken tropical cyclones over the Atlantic. This very dry air is most likely to have an impact in July and early August, Dr Gerry Bell, a hurricane climate specialist with NOAA told RT. com. This is when atmospheric conditions are only marginally conducive, if at all, for tropical storm formation. Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Andrew began life as tropical waves off the coast of west Africa. Irma was first spotted as a tropical disturbance off the Cape Verde Islands in late August, before becoming a hurricane over the Atlantic as it moved west. Cape Verde hurricanes are known for being particularly large and intense, however not all hurricanes hitting the US originate here: Harvey evolved from a tropical wave to the east of the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean Sea.A 2015 study examining the relationship between West African tropical disturbances and Atlantic hurricanes found that the larger an area covered by the disturbances was, the more likely it would develop into a hurricane only one to two weeks later. Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes?Hurricane seasons have generally been longer since 1995, according to Bell, which he says is consistent with a high activity era. The season lengths since 1995 are comparable to those during the last active era of the 1950s-1960s.A study published in Nature last year, led by James Elsner, a climate scientist and geographer at Florida State University, found that, while hurricanes were becoming more powerful, they were also becoming less frequent. However, there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers. An early draft of the government publication, the US Climate Science Special Report, published by the New York Times notes an "observed upward trend in North Atlantic hurricane activity since the 1970s." The NOAA Geophysical fluid dynamics laboratory, meanwhile, says it is too early to conclude that global warming has already had a "detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity." However, expects it to result in more intense tropical cyclones globally with substantially higher rainfall rates by the end of the 21st century. It notes, however, that there is little evidence to suggest that climate change will lead to a large increase in numbers of tropical storms or overall hurricanes in the Atlantic.	False
525	npr	left_center_bias	2018-02-07	So to figure out if we can meet everyone's basic needs without destroying the planet, we need to know: For each bit of progress on the human front, how much harm is done on the environmental side?To find out, Daniel O'Neill — an economist at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom — and several collaborators came up with 11 indicators that a country has met the needs of its citizens.	We certainly hope it's possible to do things better — to achieve a high level of human well-being at a much lower level of resource use."	After all, these findings are based on how we are doing things now, he says."	Then they looked at seven key ways in which humans damage the environment.	Specifically, O'Neill and his fellow researchers ran statistical tests to determine for each environmental measure how much damage it takes to produce a corresponding improvement on each of the social well-being indicators."	"So there's a turning point after which additional resource use contributes very little to social performance." <sep> "Then they analyzed the data on 150 countries to determine how they scored on both the environmental and the social fronts. <sep> And he adds that this study actually points to one way to do that. <sep> And what we find is that it follows a curve of diminishing returns — as you use more resources you get less social bang for your buck," says O'Neill. <sep> They range from boosting life expectancy above age 65 to ensuring that at least 95 percent of its adult population has graduated from high school, has access to sanitation and earns more than the extreme poverty line of $1.90 a day. <sep> 	If We Bring The Good Life To All, Will We Destroy The Planet? If We Bring The Good Life To All, Will We Destroy The Planet?Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants: How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power, medical care to stay healthy, enough income to feed their kids, education for the children so they can fulfill their potential. But a new study in the Journal Nature Sustainability poses a question not often considered: If we were to succeed in providing all this, what would be the cost to the environment?In other words, can our planet actually sustain the good life for all?As we improve the human condition – building sanitation facilities and expanding farming to provide more food, for example – we necessarily damage the environment. We cut down trees, we put fertilizers in the soil that kill off aquatic life, we pump carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. So to figure out if we can meet everyone's basic needs without destroying the planet, we need to know: For each bit of progress on the human front, how much harm is done on the environmental side?To find out, Daniel O'Neill — an economist at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom — and several collaborators came up with 11 indicators that a country has met the needs of its citizens. They range from boosting life expectancy above age 65 to ensuring that at least 95 percent of its adult population has graduated from high school, has access to sanitation and earns more than the extreme poverty line of $1.90 a day. Then they looked at seven key ways in which humans damage the environment. For each of these, scientists have calculated what degree of damage would put the planet at risk. In the case of carbon emissions, for instance, the threshold is the total amount that humanity can emit before we will cause the planet to warm enough to trigger catastrophic weather changes. From that, "we can calculate a carbon budget for the rest of the century," notes O'Neill. And then dividing that by the number of people on the planet, "we can say, 'okay this is the carbon budget per person.' "Then they analyzed the data on 150 countries to determine how they scored on both the environmental and the social fronts. The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage — in other words, using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it. Unfortunately, "we really didn't find that," says O'Neill. Instead, says O'Neill, "generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet." These include Germany, the Netherlands and Austria. "And the countries that do well on the environmental indicators — in other words, that are consuming resources at a sustainable level — don't do well on the social indicators." Examples include Malawi, Yemen and the Philippines. There are also five countries that do damage above all seven of the environmental boundaries even as they fail to achieve all 11 social indicators. This includes the United States — which misses the mark when it comes to income equality and employment. China is arguably in even worse shape. It exceeds its per capita limits on five of the seven environmental thresholds yet only delivers on three of the social measures. Only one country comes even close to delivering the good life in a sustainable way: Vietnam succeeds on six of social indicators — including a life expectancy above 65 years and providing sufficient nutrition — while staying within its limit on every environmental threshold except carbon emissions. What does this all mean for humanity?"It's a worrying finding," says O'Neill. But he cautions against concluding that there's simply no way for everyone to enjoy a decent life without destroying the planet. After all, these findings are based on how we are doing things now, he says." We certainly hope it's possible to do things better — to achieve a high level of human well-being at a much lower level of resource use." And he adds that this study actually points to one way to do that. Specifically, O'Neill and his fellow researchers ran statistical tests to determine for each environmental measure how much damage it takes to produce a corresponding improvement on each of the social well-being indicators." And what we find is that it follows a curve of diminishing returns — as you use more resources you get less social bang for your buck," says O'Neill. "So there's a turning point after which additional resource use contributes very little to social performance." Wealthy industrialized nations such as the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada have now reached that point, says O'Neill. "As we increase our resource use we get almost no increase in human well-being from that." And this means the strategy of growing the economy — basically trying to create new wealth — to boost the well-being of its underprivileged citizens is ineffective. A much better approach, argues O'Neill, would be to focus on redistributing the wealth we already have more equitably. And if high-income countries were to adapt such a philosophy, says O'Neill, they could reduce their use of resources. And that, he says would "free up the ecological space" for poor nations – for whom using resources still does make a big impact in improving people's lives.	False
20	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-11-01	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPCorrection: A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	"There's no shortage of ideas about how this happens, but it's not quite clear how they all fit together."	The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience.	ne key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages," University of Chicago professor and the study's co-author, Malte Jansen, said in a statement.		Explosion in Antarctic sea ice levels may cause another ice age? Upside-down "rivers" of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up, leading to a rise in sea levels. A new study suggests that, in the past, increases in Antarctic sea ice in colder climates may have contributed to ice ages. Using computer simulations, the research looked at past changes during the glacial periods and noted that previous increases in sea ice levels may have significantly altered the circulation of the ocean, which led to a reverse greenhouse effect as carbon dioxide levels in the ocean increased and levels in the air decreased." ne key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages," University of Chicago professor and the study's co-author, Malte Jansen, said in a statement. "We are pretty confident that the carbon balance between the atmosphere and ocean must have changed, but we don't quite know how or why." ANTARCTICA'S ICE SHEETS CONTAIN RADIOACTIVE CHLORINE GAS 60 YEARS AFTER NUCLEAR TESTS, STUDY SAYSThe last major ice age ended at the end of the Pleistocene epoch, about 11,700 years ago, as glaciers have periodically grown and then gotten smaller. Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling, but additional factors have likely played a part, Jensen added." he most plausible explanation is that there was some change in how carbon was divided between the atmosphere and the ocean," Jansen continued. "There's no shortage of ideas about how this happens, but it's not quite clear how they all fit together." Researchers also believe a mini-ice age may have occurred roughly 12,800 years ago. It likely stems from an asteroid impact that "rocked the Northern Hemisphere" and led to the Younger Dryas climate event. Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica "plays a key role in ocean circulation" due to the deep waters in the region, leading it to have "outsize[d] consequences." AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING, NEW STUDY FINDS"What this suggests is that it's a feedback loop," said the study's lead author, Alice Marzocchi. "As the temperature drops, less carbon is released into the atmosphere, which triggers more cooling." What surprised me is how much of this increased storage can be attributed to physical changes alone, with Antarctic sea-ice cover being the key player," Marzocchi added, noting that future study of the ocean and the role it plays in the carbon cycle can help simulate "future environmental change." The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPCorrection: A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events. It was only about past events.	False
166	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-09-05	On Wednesday, a list of demands was released by a coalition of youth-led groups whose lodestar is Greta Thunberg, the Swedish teenager and activist who sparked a global wave of walkouts by school students over the climate crisis.	""There are a lot of ways that we try to change our energy consumption and our pollution," she said.	Their answers – and reactions to them – foreshadowed the fight ahead with conservatives and industry regardless of who becomes the next president.	According to Yale University polling, the climate emergency is now the second most important voting issue for Democrats, behind healthcare.	Nothing."		Democratic 2020 hopefuls split over tackling climate crisis Democrats vying for president revealed a fundamental split over how aggressively the US should tackle climate change in a seven-hour town hall meeting on Wednesday. Bernie Sanders painted an apocalyptic future wreaked by the climate crisis and pledged to wage war on the fossil fuel industry. A high-energy Elizabeth Warren urged optimism for building a better America and the former vice-president Joe Biden, who has a pitched a more moderate proposal, said he would push other nations to recommit to stronger action. Sanders said without radical change the world will be uninhabitable. "The damage to the world will be irreparable," the Vermont senator said, adding that he is proposing "the largest, most comprehensive climate plan presented by any presidential candidate in the history of the United States". With many questions focused on what candidates would ask Americans to sacrifice, Elizabeth Warren pushed back on the framing. Asked if the government should tell people what kind of lightbulbs they can have, the Massachusetts senator quipped: "Oh come on, give me a break!""There are a lot of ways that we try to change our energy consumption and our pollution," she said. "Some of it is with lightbulbs, some of it is on straws, some of it – dang – is on cheeseburgers." But most of the responsibility lies with industry, not individuals, she said, adding "this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants us to talk about". Biden meanwhile pitched himself as the candidate who could lead negotiations with the diplomatic might of the US. He said his first step as president would be to call an international meeting to strengthen the Paris climate agreement." e should be organizing the world, demanding change, we need a diplomat-in-chief," Biden said. "Look what's happening now in the Amazon, what's going on? Nothing." Biden, who critics say has one of the less progressive climate plans, also got grilled on his plans to attend a fundraiser hosted by the founder of a natural gas company. He claimed the supporter is not a corporate executive. Where Biden would invest $1.7tn to fight climate change, Warren proposed $10tn and Sanders would put forward $16.3tn, setting them widely apart. The Democrats faced questions on whether their proposals would ban fracking for natural gas, prohibit exports of oil, gas and coal, change nutritional guidelines to limit meat consumption and transition to all electric vehicles. Their answers – and reactions to them – foreshadowed the fight ahead with conservatives and industry regardless of who becomes the next president. Donald Trump in a thread on Twitter charged that Democrat plans "will raise your energy bill and prices at the pump". The fossil fuels industry, through the oil trade group the American Petroleum Institute and the American Energy Alliance, said the plans would hurt poor Americans." onight, while American families worry about making ends meet, the Democrats running for president will be working hard to outbid each other on who can raise electricity and gasoline prices the highest, and the fastest," the alliance said in an emailed statement. The event was perhaps the longest stretch of primetime television ever dedicated to climate change, held after the Democratic National Committee refused to sanction an official climate debate between candidates and amid unprecedented pressure from young activists and the Democratic voting base to tackle the climate crisis. On Wednesday, a list of demands was released by a coalition of youth-led groups whose lodestar is Greta Thunberg, the Swedish teenager and activist who sparked a global wave of walkouts by school students over the climate crisis. Thunberg arrived in New York last week, after crossing the Atlantic in a solar-powered yacht for an upcoming UN climate summit. According to Yale University polling, the climate emergency is now the second most important voting issue for Democrats, behind healthcare. Among all voting Americans, nearly seven in 10 are worried about climate change, the highest ever recorded level of concern. There are strong bipartisan majorities in favour of setting pollution limits on industry, businesses, cars and trucks. Donald Trump, who is dismantling rules aimed at lowering planet-warming gases, attacked the Democratic candidates for proposing unrealistic, costly plans. "The Democrats' destructive "environmental" proposals will raise your energy bill and prices at the pump," the president wrote on Twitter. "Don't the Democrats care about fighting American poverty?"Trump's campaign quickly took the opportunity to post a clip of California senator Kamala Harris saying she would ban plastic straws alongside an ad for Trump-branded straws. But some young conservatives have raised concerns that Republican intransigence over the climate crisis will cost the party a generation of voters. Recent Newsy-Ipsos polling found that 59% of millennial and Generation Z Republicans support the Green New Deal." here are a lot of young people who are conservative and believe in climate change … They will not vote for a Republican if they're voting on this issue," said Benjamin Backer, founder of the American Conservation Coalition, which proposes action on the climate crisis. "And I think that's a problem with the lack of involvement from the Republican Party on this issue for the past 10 years."	False
716	CNN	left_bias	2017-09-14	"They've never seen a category like this come in because it came in really at a five," he said.	That same report, however, found that human activity "may have already caused changes" and that global warming "will likely cause tropical cyclones globally to be more intense on average" and "lead to an increase in the occurrence of very intense tropical cyclone(s)."	And on Thursday in Florida, before his comments aboard Air Force One about climate change, Trump said the people of Florida experienced something "the likes of which we can say really say nobody's ever seen before."	Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change, arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth.	"In response to this story, a White House aide pointed CNN to a recent NOAA report that found that it is "premature to conclude that human activities ... have already had a detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity."		Trump dismisses climate change question by contradicting himself on hurricanes Trump, speaking to reporters aboard Air Force One on Thursday after touring damage from Hurricane Irma on Florida's west coast, said "we've had bigger storms than this" when asked about climate change." If you go back into the 1930s and the 1940s, and you take a look, we've had storms over the years that have been bigger than this," Trump said. "If you go back into the teens, you'll see storms that were as big or bigger. So we did have two horrific storms, epic storms, but if you go back into the '30s and '40s, and you go back into the teens, you'll see storms that were very similar and even bigger, OK?"In response to this story, a White House aide pointed CNN to a recent NOAA report that found that it is "premature to conclude that human activities ... have already had a detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity." That same report, however, found that human activity "may have already caused changes" and that global warming "will likely cause tropical cyclones globally to be more intense on average" and "lead to an increase in the occurrence of very intense tropical cyclone(s)." Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change, arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth. Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a "hoax" perpetrated by the Chinese. Trump's comments Thursday go against the hyperbolic language he used in the lead-up and aftermath of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma. "Hurricane Irma is of epic proportion, perhaps bigger than we have ever seen," Trump tweeted as Irma moved closer to Florida. Earlier this month he tweeted , "Hurricane looks like largest ever recorded in the Atlantic!" And on Thursday in Florida, before his comments aboard Air Force One about climate change, Trump said the people of Florida experienced something "the likes of which we can say really say nobody's ever seen before." "They've never seen a category like this come in because it came in really at a five," he said. Top Trump administration officials have repeatedly dodged questions about how climate change affected the damage done by hurricanes Harvey and Irma, saying the issue should be discussed at a later date. said last week it was "insensitive" to address global warming at this time. said last week it was "insensitive" to address global warming at this time. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said last week it was "insensitive" to address global warming at this time. Mick Mulvaney, the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, told CNN that climate change is a "longer discussion on another day" and a "big topic for the media." And both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering when asked Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of the storms. Trump's visit to tour hurricane damage on Thursday was his second trip in as many weeks. Trump toured the Houston area earlier this month after Hurricane Harvey brought massive flooding to the city. The storm and subsequent damage could end up being the costliest natural disaster in US history.	False
289	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-08-26	I want a spectacular country with jobs, with pensions, with so many things and that's what we're getting so I want to be very careful at the same time at the same time … it's very important to me, very important to me, we have to maintain this incredible – this incredible place that we've all built.	'I want clean air.	'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water – thank you very much everybody I appreciate it, thank you,' he concluded.	He concluded his remarks with some environmental boosterism.	'A lot of people don't understand that I have done more environmental impact statements probably than anybody, that's I guess I can say definitely because I've done many, many, many of them.		Trump skipped G7 climate session and thought meeting hadn't happened yet President Donald Trump proclaimed himself an 'environmentalist' Monday after missing a climate change discussion on Monday with other world leaders at the G7 summit in Biarritz, France. At a press conference, the president said he knows 'more about the environment than most people' in part due to his time as a builder, when environmental concerns often pose last-minute roadblocks to a project. At a summit where relentless fires in the Amazon provided a backdrop, Trump did not respond directly when asked if he still harbored doubts about global warming, vouching for his environmental credentials by pointing to numerous environmental impact statements he has been involved with.'I went the cleanest water on earth. I want to cleanest air on earth. And that's what we're doing. I'm an environmentalist,' Trump told reporters at the end of the summit.'A lot of people don't understand that I have done more environmental impact statements probably than anybody, that's I guess I can say definitely because I've done many, many, many of them. More than anybody that's ever been president or vice president or anything even close to president. And I think I know more about the environment than most people,' he said. Trump was referencing his time as a builder, when an environmental review is part of the construction process. Although he steered clear of the global warming debate, after long expressing doubts, Trump touted the value of U.S. oil and liquified national gas reserves, and called for new infrastructure to harness it. He said the domestic industry is creating 'tremendous wealth, and LNG is being sought over all over Europe and all over the world.''I'm not going to lose that wealth. I'm not going to lose it on dreams — on windmills, which, frankly, aren't working too well,' Trump said, once again taking a shot at a growing renewable energy source.'I want clean air. I want clean water I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with jobs, with pensions, with so many things and that's what we're getting so I want to be very careful at the same time at the same time … it's very important to me, very important to me, we have to maintain this incredible – this incredible place that we've all built. We've become much richer country and that's a good thing, not a bad thing because that great wealth allows us to take care of people,' Trump said. He concluded his remarks with some environmental boosterism.'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water – thank you very much everybody I appreciate it, thank you,' he concluded. Trump was scheduled to attend the session on climate, biodiversity and oceans, but his chair remained empty while other leaders pledged a modest $20 million to help put out fires that are raging across wide swaths of the Amazon jungles in Brazil.'He wasn't in the room but his team was there,' French President Emmanuel Macron said. The White House attributed his absence to scheduled one-on-one meetings that he attended with India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi and German Chancellor Angela Merkel – both of whom managed to attend.'The President had scheduled meetings and bilaterals with Germany and India, so a senior member of the Administration attended in his stead,' White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham told DailyMail. com and other news outlets.A White House official said the stand-in was an aide from the National Security Council. Trump started the morning behind schedule. His meeting with Merkel was delayed about two hours. Asked about the global warming meeting during a photo-op with Merkel, the president said: 'We're having it in a little while.'He had no reply to a journalist who informed him that it was already underway. During his meeting with Modi, Trump said that he wants 'clean air and clean water,' but made no comment about his decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord. He did offer, however, that the climate change discussion would be his next stop. That never materialized. Trump is a climate change skeptic who once claimed it was a hoax invented by the Chinese. United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said Monday that the world faces 'a dramatic climate emergency.' He will ask leaders at a Sept. 23 summit in New York to agree to cut greenhouse gas emissions by more than they promised in the 2015 Paris agreement. Guterres said Monday that 'we are much worse than we were during Paris ... and so it's absolutely essential that countries commit themselves to increase what was promised.'Guterres claimed that Greenland's ice cap was melting 'dramatically' and that 2015 through 2019 were 'the five hottest years on record.'	False
93	shareblue	left_bias	2019-06-24	Published with permission of The American Independent.	The people, who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms, droughts, wildfires and heat waves."	The intent is to try to suppress a message — in this case, the increasing danger of human-caused climate change," said Michael Mann, a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University.	"We stand for spreading the word about the science we do, especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people."	If you're taking a certain block of research and not communicating it, it defeats the purpose of why USDA does the research in the first place," Robert Bonnie, who worked at USDA during President Obama's administration, told Politico.		Trump officials keep getting caught hiding scientific reports they don't like The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is actively trying to muzzle and minimize scientific reports warning about the impacts of climate change, according to a Monday Politico report. The research Trump officials are trying to keep hidden could help farmers deal with the impact of climate change, such as how climate change affects the protein in wheat fed to cattle, or how changes in carbon dioxide levels alters the nutrients in rice. But rather than promote such peer-reviewed research by the USDA's Agricultural Research Service (ARS), the agency refuses to even issue press releases. In one instance about research on rice, the agency tried to dissuade a research partner, the University of Washington, from publicly discussing research." It was so unusual to have an agency basically say: 'Don't do a press release,'" Jeff Hodson, a communications director at the university, told Politico. "We stand for spreading the word about the science we do, especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people." Research from Politico showed the USDA did not attempt any promotion or press releases for 45 ARS studies that mentioned climate change." The intent is to try to suppress a message — in this case, the increasing danger of human-caused climate change," said Michael Mann, a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University. "Who loses out? The people, who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms, droughts, wildfires and heat waves." Anti-science censorship has become a hallmark of the Trump administration. In August 2018, a survey of 63,000 government scientists warned that "censorship has been a problem in the Trump administration from the beginning." When a multi-agency report on climate change was released in November 2018, Trump's EPA administrator, Andrew Wheeler, complained that it had too much science in it. As recently as June, the Trump administration prevented a scientist from writing about climate change in testimony before Congress because it didn't "jibe" with the administration's view on the topic. Trump has been clear that he does not believe in the sound science behind climate change, writing it off as a hoax. Trump said he didn't believe the multi-agency scientific report about climate change noted above. Trump has also chosen fellow climate change skeptics for the highest levels of his administration, including Sonny Perdue, who leads the Department of Agriculture. In May, career government economists accused Perdue and his agency of retaliating against them for their reports showing that Trump's tax and farm subsidy policies are hurting the very rural voters he promised to help. Now farmers may also feel the brunt of the pain from not receiving information about how to cope with the changing environment. Perdue refused to comment on this latest report that his agency is suppressing scientific research." If you're taking a certain block of research and not communicating it, it defeats the purpose of why USDA does the research in the first place," Robert Bonnie, who worked at USDA during President Obama's administration, told Politico. Rather than embrace science, the Trump administration is hurting farmers in order to cling to an anti-science political position. Published with permission of The American Independent.	True
651	National Review	right_bias	2017-09-02	We routinely delay temporal pleasure, for example, in the hopes of attaining goals we hold in higher esteem, such as when we diet, exercise, or volunteer.	We all hold a hierarchy of values.	Each individual has values, good and bad, and they often remain in tension with one another.	It's an odd calculus at play in the author's mind, where the ultimate barometer of a funeral's efficacy is its environmental impact statement.	It is, after all, the measure of one's moral fitness to value some things (say, forgiveness) over others (vengeance).	For most people of good conscience, the value of a human being's life supersedes that of our dog or a backyard plant. <sep> Vox Ruins Funerals in a Quest for Environmental Justice What is the goal of a funeral? <sep> We make decisions every day accordingly. <sep> The piece and video discuss the environmental effects of American funerals, with their caskets, embalming fluid, and grave sites. <sep> For most normal people, funerary concerns are primarily about memorializing the deceased within the reasonable bounds of one's budget. <sep> What makes radical environmentalism, and its private-jet-flying propagators, so toxic a cultural beast is how high on its adherents' totem pole they are willing to place environmental concerns, often over some of the most elemental human needs and desires. <sep> What is most remarkable is the piece's bizarre stance on this debate — Peterson's primary concern appears to be getting rid of Grandma with as small of a carbon footprint as possible, rather than reverence, intergenerational remembrance, or even concern for the grieving. <sep> Or an opportunity to extol your passion for environmental justice?A recent Vox piece by Dean Peterson states with dogged solemnity that "modern burials are awful for the environment," and has an accompanying video whose combination of animation, the veneer of open-mindedness, and a vocally inflective narrator discreetly blurs the line between providing information and outright advocacy. <sep> That statement not only describes Judas's moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern, holy as it may be — poverty reduction, environmental protection, or any other earthly mission — that does not give a preferential deference to God, His creation, and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities. <sep> In this Vox piece, it appears that some environmentalists have shifted focused to the other side of life's journey: death, and more specifically, how we bury our loved ones. <sep> To commit the soul of the decedent to his final reward? <sep> Maybe, he suggests, readers could consider "freezing [their bodies] with liquid nitrogen or having [their] ashes turned into a coral reef." <sep> The wish to have additional children, for example, is a cause for deep apprehension among environmentalists, who seem all at once indifferent and tone-deaf to how out of touch such a sentiment is. <sep> When Mary Magdalene anoints Christ with perfumes and oil as a pre-burial ritual on a night leading up to His execution, a livid Judas berates her gesture, protesting that the money used to buy the perfume could have been spent on "the poor." <sep> But what is particularly troubling about Vox's article is its larger point — that we as humans must give perpetual deference to some vague conception of "environmentalism" at most any cost. <sep> 	Vox Ruins Funerals in a Quest for Environmental Justice What is the goal of a funeral? Is it to pay tribute to a life lost? To commit the soul of the decedent to his final reward? Or an opportunity to extol your passion for environmental justice?A recent Vox piece by Dean Peterson states with dogged solemnity that "modern burials are awful for the environment," and has an accompanying video whose combination of animation, the veneer of open-mindedness, and a vocally inflective narrator discreetly blurs the line between providing information and outright advocacy. It's yet another instance of the environmentally conscious Left virtue-signaling about the negative effects of nearly everything human beings do: Not even the way we mourn our dead is safe from their parade of moral superiority. The piece and video discuss the environmental effects of American funerals, with their caskets, embalming fluid, and grave sites. The piece claims the average burial costs up to $12,000, though the National Funeral Directors Association's most recent report indicated average costs almost $3,500 less than that. Either way, that's a lot of money, of course, but the point is not to expiate upon the market forces driving prices in the funeral industry. What is most remarkable is the piece's bizarre stance on this debate — Peterson's primary concern appears to be getting rid of Grandma with as small of a carbon footprint as possible, rather than reverence, intergenerational remembrance, or even concern for the grieving. We all hold a hierarchy of values. For most people of good conscience, the value of a human being's life supersedes that of our dog or a backyard plant. We make decisions every day accordingly. We routinely delay temporal pleasure, for example, in the hopes of attaining goals we hold in higher esteem, such as when we diet, exercise, or volunteer. Each individual has values, good and bad, and they often remain in tension with one another. It is, after all, the measure of one's moral fitness to value some things (say, forgiveness) over others (vengeance). What makes radical environmentalism, and its private-jet-flying propagators, so toxic a cultural beast is how high on its adherents' totem pole they are willing to place environmental concerns, often over some of the most elemental human needs and desires. The wish to have additional children, for example, is a cause for deep apprehension among environmentalists, who seem all at once indifferent and tone-deaf to how out of touch such a sentiment is. In this Vox piece, it appears that some environmentalists have shifted focused to the other side of life's journey: death, and more specifically, how we bury our loved ones. For most normal people, funerary concerns are primarily about memorializing the deceased within the reasonable bounds of one's budget. Peterson's video notes that, in this strange race to the environmental bottom, some advocates believe burying Aunt Lisa in a casket is an alarming degradation of the environment — some might even want her tossed straight into the ground. Maybe, he suggests, readers could consider "freezing [their bodies] with liquid nitrogen or having [their] ashes turned into a coral reef." It's an odd calculus at play in the author's mind, where the ultimate barometer of a funeral's efficacy is its environmental impact statement. It's totally legitimate to criticize modern burials; on its face, the piece seems a cogent critique of excesses in the funeral industry. But what is particularly troubling about Vox's article is its larger point — that we as humans must give perpetual deference to some vague conception of "environmentalism" at most any cost. As the oft-repeated refrain goes, is environmentalist hysteria the inevitable fate of a society that ceases to believe in God? When organized religion fades and its would-be adherents are left to search for meaning, does the god of the environment end their search for a moral authority?Pardon the extended biblical analogy, but Vox's piece sounds more than a bit like Judas Iscariot's laments about the funeral rituals performed on Christ. When Mary Magdalene anoints Christ with perfumes and oil as a pre-burial ritual on a night leading up to His execution, a livid Judas berates her gesture, protesting that the money used to buy the perfume could have been spent on "the poor." John's Gospel provides the relevant addendum: "He did not say this because he cared about the poor but because he was a thief; as keeper of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it." That statement not only describes Judas's moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern, holy as it may be — poverty reduction, environmental protection, or any other earthly mission — that does not give a preferential deference to God, His creation, and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities. This piece from Vox forces us to ask the question: At what point does genuine concern for the environment turn into a power grab so vicious that one would rather soak Grandpa in liquid nitrogen than give him a proper burial?– John Hirschauer is a senior economics student at Fairfield University, a columnist for the Fairfield Mirror, and the host of The Outlet with John Hirschauer radio program.	True
811	USA Today	left_center_bias	2017-10-23	It informs decision makers.	Scientific evidence and input is crucial to policy efforts.	And it should not take away from the terrific scientific work that is being done, because at the heart of all this is not the politics, it's the knowledge."	This type of political interference or scientific censorship — whatever you want to call it — is ill-advised and does a real disservice to the American people and public health.	We can debate the issues, we can have different viewpoints but we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us, that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ...		Furor erupts over EPA decision to pull climate scientists from panel discussion WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency is drawing heat for pulling its scientists from a panel discussion Monday in Rhode Island as part of a conference spotlighting the effects of climate change on the Narragansett Bay. The withdrawal of the two scientists as well as an agency consultant has sparked fresh criticism about EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt's skepticism toward the broad scientific community's conclusion that human-caused global warming is a proven fact and a growing concern. The conference where the scientists were scheduled to speak coincided with the release of a report showing the threats of climate change to Narragansett Bay, the 196- square-mile estuary whose watershed encompasses 1,705 square miles with more than 100 towns and cities that are home to nearly 2 million people." Climate change is affecting air and water temperatures, precipitation, sea level, and fish in the Narragansett Bay region," the report, which was partially funded by the EPA, concludes. Narragansett Bay is one of 28 estuaries that make up the National Estuary Program, an EPA program designed "to protect and restore the water quality and ecological integrity of estuaries of national significance." Rhode Island's two U.S. senators — Democrats Jack Reed and Sheldon Whitehouse — criticized the EPA's decision during an appearance Monday at the conference in Providence, R.I." This has traditionally been a bipartisan issue," Whitehouse said, citing former Rhode Island GOP Sen. John Chafee's role establishing the estuary program. "So there is no reason for it to have to be this way.  And it should not take away from the terrific scientific work that is being done, because at the heart of all this is not the politics, it's the knowledge." Reed said he was "disheartened and disappointed" that the EPA scientists were not allowed to publicly present their findings." This type of political interference or scientific censorship — whatever you want to call it — is ill-advised and does a real disservice to the American people and public health. Scientific evidence and input is crucial to policy efforts.  It informs decision makers. We can debate the issues, we can have different viewpoints but we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us, that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ... I hope the Trump administration will look at the facts, read this report, and reconsider its stance on trying to muzzle scientists who present evidence that doesn't conform to their political agenda." The EPA has not responded to a request for comment. Agency spokesman John Konkus told The Washington Post  in an email Sunday that "EPA scientists are attending, they simply are not presenting, it is not an EPA conference." The agency officials initially scheduled to speak during the conference are Autumn Oczkowski, a research ecologist at the EPA's National Health and Environmental Effects Research Laboratory Atlantic Ecology Division in Rhode Island, and Rose Martin, a postdoctoral fellow at the same EPA laboratory, according to The New York Times, which first reported the story. Emily Shumchenia, an EPA consultant, was also scheduled to take part in an afternoon panel titled "The Present and Future Biological Implications of Climate Change." Analysis: Is the war on coal really over?	False
589	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-05-04	"The permanent protections President Obama established for the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans were won with years of research, lobbying and organizing."	y now it's clear there is no legitimate public interest in further expanding risk to our oceans in pursuit of fossil fuels that we don't need," Lawrence said.	Environmentalists spent years lobbying and campaigning to get such policies in place.	LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election."	CBD wants the court to force DHS to conduct a "programmatic environmental impact statement" on border enforcement operations.		Environmentalists Flood The Courts With Lawsuits To Stop Trump's Agenda At least eighteen environmental groups filed four lawsuits in one day against the Trump administration, including suits to keep in place Obama-era environmental policies. Environmentalists filed their suit Wednesday. They are living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office — namely, to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies. These include orders that stop offshore drilling and force the closure of coal plants. The League of Conservation Voters (LCV) led eight other groups in a legal challenge of Trump's recent executive order to reopen large swaths of Arctic seas to offshore drilling. LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election." ever in LCV's history have we taken this step," Gene Karpinski, LCV's president, said in a statement. "The permanent protections President Obama established for the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans were won with years of research, lobbying and organizing." The suit argues Obama used his authority Section 12(a) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to put most Arctic waters off-limits to development. The act does not allow future presidents to undo placing waters off-limits, activists argue. The same day, Earthjustice and the Center for Biological Diversity (CBD) filed suits to challenge the administration. Earthjustice sued to stop the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) decision to indefinitely stay the implementation of wastewater discharge rules for coal plants. CBD filed suit against EPA for not finalizing deadlines for the cities of Washington, D.C. and Philadelphia to meet ozone standards. CBD also sued for Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt's emails and schedule. Earthjustice and CBD joined LCV's suit against Trump's EPA. So far, CBD has filed 15 lawsuits against the administration, something which the activist group publicly brags about. CBD famously sued the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to stop the construction of a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. CBD wants the court to force DHS to conduct a "programmatic environmental impact statement" on border enforcement operations. Trump can expect more lawsuits as he continues to rollback Obama-era policies. Environmentalists spent years lobbying and campaigning to get such policies in place. The Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), for example, played a pivotal role in crafting the Clean Power Plan, which became Obama's signature global warming policy. But Trump ordered EPA to review the Clean Power Plan, asking the agency to see if it needed to be modified or rescinded. NRDC and other environmental groups were already locked in legal battles to keep the power plant rule from being overturned. NRDC has filed its fair share of lawsuits against Trump as well. They filed two lawsuits against the administration in February to keep the EPA from withdrawing a mercury rule and to oppose an executive order requiring agencies to repeal two regulations for every new one imposed. In March, NRDC and other environmentalists sued to block the Keystone XL oil pipeline from being built. They also tried to intervene in a lawsuit against a national ocean monument Obama created. The group filed at least two lawsuits in April challenging Trump's delaying energy efficiency standards for appliances and the administration's refusal to ban certain pesticides. NRDC attorneys are also representing LCV and others in the suit to keep Arctic waters off-limits to drilling." ere President Trump able to get away with this, the country would lose an important tool for protecting its vital interest in clean and vibrant oceans and coasts," Niel Lawrence, NRDC's Alaska director, told Bloomberg." y now it's clear there is no legitimate public interest in further expanding risk to our oceans in pursuit of fossil fuels that we don't need," Lawrence said. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
412	dailykos	left_bias	2018-09-05	To Janet, this is a moral issue.	These were matters that we have historically agreed on, if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildren's future.	And in Jordan's case, that would be Social Security, Medicare, education, health care and the like: Programs that benefit folks in his district.	The promise itself is significant for a couple of reasons: 1) it opposes any legislation relating to climate change that includes a net increase in government revenue; 2) it drives the final nail in the coffin of environmental bipartisanship, which had been the norm for decades.	(March 14, 2017, Gallup poll).	In contrast, Janet Garrett, by philosophy an environmentalist, will push for and support an agenda that will guarantee clean water, clean air, and the reduction of greenhouse gasses. <sep> 	DID JIM JORDAN REALLY SELL HIS SOUL TO THE KOCH BROTHERS? Before I address that question, I just stumbled upon an article in the August 1, Washington Post.  There, the Post updated its truth squad totals on Donald Trump: 4,229 false and misleading statements in 558 days.I then reflected upon Anderson Cooper's infamous April 17, 2018 CNN interview of Jim Jordan.  In that interview, a fumbling Jordan firmly insisted, to Cooper's amazement, that he never heard Trump lie.  This is the same Jim Jordan who less than three months later saw no evil and heard no evil in the Ohio State sex scandal that victimized some of Jordan's former wrestling students. I wondered to myself how Jordan's credibility would hold up, when cross-examined in court on this issue, now that these incredible statements are in the public domain. No wonder Trump loves Jordan!  Every word Trump speaks is the "Truth" in Jordan's world. Sure Jordan's a politician, and all politicians lie at some time or another (see Adams, ).  But it's quite another thing when you live your entire Congressional career as one big lie—a lie that causes long-term harm, not only to the folks living in your district but the country as a whole. Nowhere is that lie more obvious than in Jim Jordan's approach to global warming and general environmental issues.  And here's why Jordan will live on in villainy.   In July 2008, after being in Congress for a year and a half, Jim Jordan was the first member of Congress to sign the "No Climate Tax Pledge."  Yes, the first to sign; his initial salvo in an unrelenting fight he wages against our planet. The pledge or vow is the product of Americans for Prosperity, the conservative political advocacy group, funded by David and Charles Koch.  This is the outfit that went to war with the Obama Administration initiatives to combat global warming. The promise itself is significant for a couple of reasons: 1) it opposes any legislation relating to climate change that includes a net increase in government revenue; 2) it drives the final nail in the coffin of environmental bipartisanship, which had been the norm for decades. Let's take a closer look at this.   First, 71% of Americans now think that most scientists believe global warming is occurring; 68% of Americans believe global warming is caused by human activities. (March 14, 2017, Gallup poll).  Record percentages of Americans are now concerned about global warming.  I would predict the same percentages of belief would apply to Jordan's Ohio 4th Congressional District, plus or minus a few points. But Jordan wanted to be the first congressman in the USA to sell out the voters of a congressional district—never mind it had to be his own.  He couldn't wait to curry favor with the Koch boys and sign on the dotted line. What he's really saying is: "Regardless how bad it gets, how severe the droughts, how out of control the forest fires, how strong the tornadoes and hurricanes, how hot the summers, how cold the winters, how deep the floods, how devastating the blizzards, how much the ice caps melt, how high the oceans rise, I will not vote to tax, tariff, or otherwise increase revenues to cap the use of fossil fuels, unless that money is cut (or borrowed) from somewhere else in the budget."  And in Jordan's case, that would be Social Security, Medicare, education, health care and the like: Programs that benefit folks in his district. So from that July day in 2008, Jordan waged his own war on the environment: Voting to bar greenhouse gasses from Clean Air Act rules; voting against enforcing limits on carbon dioxide global warming pollution, against tax incentives for renewable electricity and energy conservation, against curtailing subsidies for oil and gas company exploration, but voting in favor of opening the Outer Continental Shelf to oil drilling. The League of Conservation Voters, National Environmental Scorecard, awarded Jordan a perfect 0% score for his 2017 record, and a lifetime score of 4% for his work. The saddest part of this story, however, is the depth we've descended into the abyss of partisanship on environmental issues.  These were matters that we have historically agreed on, if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildren's future. For example, in 1969, Congress passed the landmark National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).  This revolutionary piece of legislation unanimously passed the Senate; the vote in the House was 372 Years, with only 15 Nays.  Nixon signed it into law on New Year's Day, 1970. Now, thanks to guys like Jordan, NEPA would not even be brought to the floor for a vote, if it were introduced in today's Congress. In contrast, Janet Garrett, by philosophy an environmentalist, will push for and support an agenda that will guarantee clean water, clean air, and the reduction of greenhouse gasses.  Garrett knows the value of Environmental Protection; on those who knowingly violate our statutes, Janet will push for criminal enforcement.  Garrett will defend our National Park system and public lands, as she understands the need to preserve the earth for her children and grandchildren.  To Janet, this is a moral issue. Please support Janet Garrett in her efforts to replace Jordan in Congress.	True
441	palmerreport	left_bias	2018-02-25	It's pure, unadulterated selfishness.	The equation that is most dangerous, according to Jeffrey Kluger of Time, is n=1, otherwise stated as, "If it matters to me, it counts.	Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives.	Get real.	One witty Facebook user quipped, "I will be dead by that time so who cares?"	3°F of average temperature increase and three feet of sea level rise by 2050. <sep> 	Donald Trump's new climate change debacle CNN just posted an article about rising sea levels. It's good to know that the editors are much smarter than President Donald Trump or his equally climate denying Environmental Protection Agency Commissioner, Scott Pruitt. The EPA matters because climate change is right up there with the national debt as a threat to national security. The DoD, in a recent report, says that rising sea levels will put more than a thousand military installations in serious jeopardy. But CNN is wrong in their projections. I've just returned from Antarctica on a research trip to validate the most likely temperature and sea level rise projections in the ClyFy novel I'm writing. 3°F of average temperature increase and three feet of sea level rise by 2050. The scientists all agreed these were plausible.I commented, "Two feet by 2100? Get real. 3 feet by 2050. Talk to me after Cat 6 hurricanes blanket the Caribbean every year. Last year was just a preview. Pay attention CNN." Sea level rise is accelerating. One witty Facebook user quipped, "I will be dead by that time so who cares?" I thought he was being sarcastic, but he turned out to be dead serious. And there you have it. This is why deniers exist. They don't want to spend their own money to solve a problem that might affect their grandkids and not themselves. It's pure, unadulterated selfishness. They can't accept the truth of that, so they deny the science of climate change. The equation that is most dangerous, according to Jeffrey Kluger of Time, is n=1, otherwise stated as, "If it matters to me, it counts. If not, I don't give a damn." Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives. But n=1 applies to them, too.	False
69	foxnews	right_bias	2019-04-29	It's a challenging issue."	"It's also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry, that have jobs; communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism.	get the idea of taking a lead on this issue and I think many companies agree with this," she said.	"Newsom understands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow."	is intentions are very pragmatic," Catherine Reheis-Boyd, the president of the Western States Petroleum Association, told Fox News.	"The governor needs to make a plan to transition the state away from oil and gas toward renewables, but also transition workers into jobs in that sector." <sep> "But at what cost is this being done, especially when nobody else is doing anything." <sep> consider to remain optimistic given how he expressed interest in issues that [former California Gov. <sep> 	California Gov. Newsom facing new pressure from environmental groups to block drilling, fracking In the next few weeks, California Gov. Gavin Newsom is slated to announce his administration's energy policy strategy – and many environmental groups there are hoping it will include plans to end oil and gas drilling in the nation's most populous state and phase out all fossil fuel extraction. At the very least, green groups are hoping that Newsom – who campaigned last year on a promise to end controversial extraction methods like fracking and who has been a key figure in the fight to curtail climate change – will create buffer zones for any new oil and gas wells near schools, hospitals and residential neighborhoods and also monitor for dangerous emissions from plugged or abandoned wells."  consider to remain optimistic given how he expressed interest in issues that [former California Gov. Jerry] Brown did not address," Kathryn Phillips, the director of the Sierra Club California, told Fox News. "The governor needs to make a plan to transition the state away from oil and gas toward renewables, but also transition workers into jobs in that sector." But as Newsom's term in Sacramento approaches its fifth month, many of these groups are losing patience as the governor tries to balance a clean energy agenda with the demands of an industry that supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in a state with around 26 million vehicles on the road." 'm taking a very pragmatic look at it, in scoping this," Newsom told The Los Angeles Times recently. "It's also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry, that have jobs; communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism. It's a challenging issue." Newsom must now weigh the support he received from environmental groups while on the campaign trail – and his own assurances that he wants California to be powered 100 percent by renewable energy in the near future – with any moves that could negatively affect a billion-dollar industry in a state that has the world's fifth largest economy. Even with California's oil production being in decline for years, the state was the nation's fifth-largest domestic crude oil producer in 2017, according to figures compiled by the federal government." is intentions are very pragmatic," Catherine Reheis-Boyd, the president of the Western States Petroleum Association, told Fox News. "Newsom understands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow." One practice that environmental groups are hoping Newsom will clamp down on more than his predecessor is hydraulic fracturing. Known more popularly as fracking, it is a method of oil and gas extraction in which large volumes of high-pressure water are shot into the ground. Fracking has come under intense scrutiny in recent years amid widespread concerns over both the public health and environmental risks it poses. While Brown approved restrictions on the practice back in 2013, he was lambasted by green groups for not banning fracking outright amid his argument that it could provide economic opportunities to some Californians. On the campaign trail last year Newsom was adamantly opposed to fracking, but has so far remained quiet about the practice – along with the possibility of banning offshore drilling in the state - when discussing his energy agenda. Newsom, however, told the "Los Angeles Times" that despite his commitment to renewable energies, it would be impossible to completely stop California's reliance on fossil fuels at the moment." ne cannot just turn off the switch. One cannot just immediately abut against a century of practice and policy," Newsom said. Still California is one of the nation's leaders in pushing forth a green energy agenda. Despite the criticism leveled against him for waffling on clamping down on the fossil fuel industry, Brown last year signed two pieces of legislation that effectively banned the construction of any new offshore oil and gas pipelines in the state's waters and thwarted a Trump administration plan to open nearly 1.7 billion acres of coastal waters to drilling. While California cannot directly block oil and gas drilling off its coast, the legislation that Brown signed aims to drive up the operating costs of these operations enough to make the effort unprofitable. The law does this by blocking state land managers from permitting the construction of new pipelines, piers, wharves or other infrastructure projects necessary to bring oil and gas from offshore drilling sites to land." alifornia has positioned itself as the center of the Trump resistance," Jessica Levinson, a clinical law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, told Fox News. "It's bloody combat." California banned offshore drilling in state waters out to three miles back in 1994 and there haven't been any new platforms built in the last 30 years. But California is the nation's third-largest oil-producing state, behind Texas and North Dakota, and there are still 32 offshore oil platforms and artificial islands in federal and state waters off the coasts of Santa Barbara, Ventura, Los Angeles and Orange Counties. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPCalifornia may be leading the nation in curbing its reliance on fossil fuels and many environmental activists believe Newsom will take even bolder steps than his predecessor, energy industry insiders like Reheis-Boyd question what the point is when other states – and nations – are not doing their part as well."  get the idea of taking a lead on this issue and I think many companies agree with this," she said. "But at what cost is this being done, especially when nobody else is doing anything."	False
109	slate	left_bias	2019-08-21	Wildfires are common in the dry season, but are also deliberately set by farmers illegally deforesting land for cattle ranching."	It came after Inpe published data showing an 88 percent increase in deforestation there in June compared to the same month a year ago."	The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro's environmental policies that don't give much thought to the environment at all.	Now I am Nero, setting the Amazon aflame," he said.	"I used to be called Captain Chainsaw.		Brazil Reports Record Number of Fires in Amazon, but Its Government Doesn't Care The Amazon is burning at an alarming rate in Brazil with 72,843 fires detected so far this year by the country's space research center INPE. That amounts to an 83 percent increase over the same period in 2018 and the highest number since the agency started recording fires in 2013, meaning it is likely the highest number of fires to date. The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro's environmental policies that don't give much thought to the environment at all. The smoke from the fires has been so bad that when carried by the wind it caused an hourlong blackout in nearby São Paulo. The right-wing populist Bolsonaro, who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazon—home to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so people—came to power in January. The Bolsonaro regime has reversed previous governments' efforts to enforce environmental regulations and protect what is the largest rainforest in the world. "Over the past decade, previous governments had managed to reduce deforestation with action by federal agencies and a system of fines. But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes," the BBC reports. "Last month, the far-right president accused Inpe's director of lying about the scale of deforestation in the Amazon and trying to undermine the government. It came after Inpe published data showing an 88 percent increase in deforestation there in June compared to the same month a year ago." Conversely, NASA has reported overall fire activity in the Amazon basin has been slightly below average." ince Thursday, INPE said satellite images spotted 9,507 new forest fires in the country, mostly in the Amazon basin, home to the world's largest tropical forest seen as vital to countering global warming," Reuters reports. "Wildfires have increased in Mato Grosso and Para, two states where Brazil's agricultural frontier has pushed into the Amazon basin and spurred deforestation. Wildfires are common in the dry season, but are also deliberately set by farmers illegally deforesting land for cattle ranching." Bolsonaro dismissed alarm over the latest data, saying it was simply the season that farmers use open fires to clear farmland. "I used to be called Captain Chainsaw. Now I am Nero, setting the Amazon aflame," he said.	False
25	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-12-15	The difference between the youth on the streets and the negotiations is that the youth on the streets are acting with urgency," she told AFP."	People across the world must rise to save the planet."	Alexandria Villasenor, a 14-year-old climate activist, said she was "disappointed" in the lack of action at COP 25."	It isn't reflective of the kids who are demonstrating on the streets the world over, communities being washed away by rising sea levels," he said late Saturday."	"I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand, versus what the climate negotiations are delivering," Alden Meyer, strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists, told AFP.		UN climate talks unraveling, face failure... Madrid (AFP) - A UN climate summit in Madrid was on life support Saturday after marathon negotiations between countries left them more divided than ever over on how to fight global warming and pay for its ravages. Diplomats from rich nations, emerging giants and the world's poorest countries -- each for their own reasons -- found fault with a draft agreement put forward by host Chile in a botched attempt to strike common ground. Faced with fire-alarm warnings from science, deadly extreme weather made worse by climate change, and weekly strikes by millions of young people, negotiations in Madrid were under pressure to send a clear signal that governments were willing to double down in tackling the crisis. But the 12-day talks, more than 24 hours after their scheduled end, had retreated even further from this goal on Saturday. Simon Stiell, Grenada envoy, told AFP that the lack of ambition in the initial agreement text was "crazy"." It isn't reflective of the kids who are demonstrating on the streets the world over, communities being washed away by rising sea levels," he said late Saturday." We wanted provisions that were in the Paris agreement to remain and what we see at every COP it just seems to be another opportunity to erode those." Veteran observers of UN climate talks were stunned by the state of play nearly 24 hours after the negotiations had been due to close."I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand, versus what the climate negotiations are delivering," Alden Meyer, strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists, told AFP. Alexandria Villasenor, a 14-year-old climate activist, said she was "disappointed" in the lack of action at COP 25." The difference between the youth on the streets and the negotiations is that the youth on the streets are acting with urgency," she told AFP." COP 25 has failed us and it's another year of failure." Under the Paris accord, countries agreed in 2015 to work to limit global temperature rises to "well below" two degrees Celsius through a series of voluntary action pledges that step up over time. The push for a strengthening of voluntary carbon cutting plans is led by small-island and least-developed states, along with the European Union. Ministers from this "high ambition coalition" have called out countries they see as blocking a consensus call for all countries to step up, notably the United States, Australia and Saudi Arabia. China and India, the world's No. 1 and No. 4 carbon emitters, have made it clear they see no need to improve on their current emissions reduction plans, which run to 2030. These emerging giants have chosen instead to emphasise the historical responsibility of rich nations to lead the way and provide financing to poor countries. Observers told AFP Saturday evening that a possible landing ground had emerged in which China agreed to yield a little over language surrounding ambition in return for a clear reiteration of historic polluters' obligation to do more. The COP 25 summit was also meant to finalise a chapter on carbon markets in the Paris rulebook, which goes into effect next year. Some nations, notably Brazil and Australia, want to count carbon credits accumulated under a previous climate deal as part of their commitments under the Paris goals, further stymying progress. The United States, which is leaving the landmark Paris climate deal next year, was accused of acting as a spoiler on a number of issues vital to climate-vulnerable nations. This included so-called "loss and damage" funding to help disaster-hit countries repair and rebuild." The US has not come here in good faith," said Harjeet Singh, climate lead with charity ActionAid." They continue to block the world's efforts to help people whose lives have been turned upside down by climate change." Even if nations in Madrid snatch victory from the jaws of defeat and agree to implement their pledges, Earth is on course to warm more than 3C by 2100." If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up, I would say today in Madrid, governments fucked up," said Mohamed Adow, Director of Power Shift Africa." People across the world must rise to save the planet."	False
77	redstate	right_bias	2019-08-31	Okay.	She goes on to cite Germany as a shining example of who we should want to be like.	kay.	Okay?	They only end up making an ass out of 'u' and 'mption'".		Beware the Bern…Bernie Sanders Wants to Tax Your Meat Perpetual presidential candidate Bernie Sanders continues his "Gimme" tour with more and more promises to steal from the poor to give to the rich. This week, Bernie met Britta. Britta is concerned about climate change, in particular you nasty, vile carnivores out there. Britta used her one opportunity to quiz a presidential candidate to ask about…meat." kay. Okay. One second while I get my question. Okay, so as you probably know, animal agriculture is to blame for the majority of climate change and is the leading cause of deforestation, water and air pollution, and biodiversity loss. With that being known, what do you plan on doing to ensure that Americans limit their consumption of animal products?""Climate change is the leading cause of every bad thing on the earth" is one hell of a "You probably already know", Britta. Got any facts to back that up or are we just making assumptions? Because, as the great Samuel L. Jackson once uttered on film, "Never make assumptions. They only end up making an ass out of 'u' and 'mption'". But Britta doesn't stop there. She goes on to cite Germany as a shining example of who we should want to be like. You may be completely shocked to learn that Bernie Sanders responded by affirming that indeed, America needs to be more like the nation that brought us Hitler, the Holocaust and the VW Bug (only one of those things is good, by the way. In case you needed some clarity). Sanders did not say outright that a meat tax is an official policy of his platform, but he did give it the old politician shine, indicating that he would support such a notion and that also he's interested in "helping" farmers become more "aggressive" about combatting climate change. Yes, I'm sure farmers will be very excited for your "help" which will be tantamount to them giving up their land, their livestock and their livelihood, effectively causing a nationwide famine but hey…socialists got to socialist." hank you for the question and it's a good question. All I can say is, if we believe, as I do and you do, that climate change is real, we're going to have to tackle it in every single area, including agriculture. Okay? And in fact, one of the things we want to do with our farmers out there is help them become more aggressive and able to help us combat climate change rather than contribute to it. So we will certainly — you're right, we've got to look at agriculture, we've got to look at every cause of the crisis that we face." No word yet on if Sanders will be getting equally "aggressive" with his own multiple vacation properties.	True
