When do they want it?	Fifth to end oppression and bring about the redistribution of power.	Fourth to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone.	What do they want?	Second to guarantee millions of good high wage jobs and economic security.	False
The 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque amongst the buildings damaged.	The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Officials have reported five deaths but it is not clear if those were as a result of the tsunami.	Last month a series of earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok killing hundreds of people the biggest on 5 August killed more than 460.	False
The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	One of its authors a leading professor from Stanford condemned the US border wall project branding it a 'crime against biodiversity'.	ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The bordersis an ecological theatre where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The borderis an ecological theater where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	Some of the recommendations include Following existing environmental laws taking action to mitigate ecological harm and forgoing physical barriers in particularly sensitive areas.	False
Were addressing the issue.	He added that were the cleanest weve ever been.	Administration officials havetouted these declines to explain their push to boost fossil fuels as well as to defend the presidentsdecision last year to withdraw the U.S. from the historic Paris accord on combating climate change.	Everyone else is up he said referring to other countries overall emissions.	We have our own plan.	False
SANDERS CALLS FOR 'REGISTRY OF DISREPUTABLE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS' CUTTING PRISON POPULATION IN HALF The Vermont senator has long been an advocate for the Green New Deal but only this year has it become a central policy for many of those seeking the Democratic nomination for president.	He also promises justice for frontline communities via a 40 billion Climate Justice Resiliency Fund as well as an extra 200 billion to the Green Climate Fund.	introduced a formal resolution on it which stalled in the Senate but drewsupport from a number of 2020 hopefuls.	This year it was given a big push in Congress when Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass.	In a nod to the social justice part of the plan he says that the deal is an opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social racial and economic justice including redressing the exclusion of black brown Native Americanand other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal.	False
Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement.	Trump wants to scare people into letting him ignore the law and endanger wildlife and people Brian Segee an attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity said in a statement.	Trumps wall is a divisive symbol of fear and hatred and it does real harm to the landscape and communities.	Despite sidestepping these laws DHS is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and will continue to assess potential impacts coordinate with relevant stakeholders and to the extent possible offset or mitigate potential impacts department spokesman Carlos Diaz said in an email to HuffPost.	Between 2005 and 2008 the department invoked that authority five times according to the agency.	False
Thats what good government looks like.	Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences came together and took courageous action.	California is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health economy and future said Fred Krupp president of the Environmental Defense Fund.	But other climate activists declared themselves pleased with the outcome pointing out that it showed that action to reduce emissions is bipartisan and popular.	Defendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earths climate and sea levels the complaint states.	False
For years now its been clear that blocking environmental regulations and obstructing action on climate change are top Republican Party priorities.	The actual Paris deal agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 is aspirational rather than binding calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction.	The GOPs leading politicians and media outlets have tended to praise fossil fuel companies and ignore or cast doubt on climate science.	President Donald Trump announced his decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord at 3 pm Eastern in the White House Rose Garden.	The Associated Presss Jill Colvin and Julie Pace though report that Trumps decision may not be entirely clear cut and that aides continued to deliberate on caveats in the language.	False
The numbers don't lie.	What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency.	It is very worrying.	We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed said Erik Solheim head of UN Environment.	Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement.	False
We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life.	Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement expanding drilling on federal lands and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks.	The Trump administration has targeted dozens of rules.	The Trump administration has spent two years giving away the store to fossil fuel companies and Republicans in Congress cheered every step of the way says Grijalva.	President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office.	False
Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil.	You are failing us.	Right here right now is where we draw the line.	People are suffering.	And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth.	False
Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all.	Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios Amy Harder during the event.	Republicans on the other hand want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	RELATED John Kasich Praises The Green New Deal However Senate Democrats are trying to avoid having to vote on the Green New Deal resolution.	False
To be honest it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time.	These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work.	In reality nothing is quite that straightforward.	But unlike those figures which relied on one line of evidence the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result.	Perhaps it should have been but that was the view of the academic community then.	False
The world is not flat pollution is not free and the health and safety of our children is not for sale said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra standing alongside the governor.	Pollutants coming out of vehicles out of the tailpipe does permanent lung damage to children living near well traveled roads and freeways.	This is a fact.	The rules were set six years ago when California and the Obama administration agreed to a single nationwide fuel economy standard.	At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions.	True
Fox who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign said the U.S. leader's decision condemns this generation and those to come and would leave a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness.	Wherever we live whoever we are we all share the same responsibility make our planet great again Macron added.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	The European Union's top climate change official Miguel Arias Canente said in a statement that Trump's decision to leave the Paris accord made it a sad day for the global community adding that the bloc deeply regrets the unilateral decision.	He said I do respect this decision but I do think it is an actual mistake both for the U.S. and for our planet.	True
It is inherently political like everything else Its in the U.S. Constitution Article 1 Section 8 to promote the progress of science and useful arts.	Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration I just want to remind the administration that science is political.	Donald Trump isnt just shirking his constitutional responsibility to advance scientific innovation but hesputting at risk the only planet we have.	As thousands of activists and scientists around the world gather to March for Science Bill Nye has a U.S. Constitution lesson for Donald Trump that proves he must advance scientific causes.	And my interpretationof the expression useful arts is engineering.	False
Correspondent Chip Reid echoed by referencing worldwide condemnation.	The twin disasters of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showcased once again the media's reflex to use such tragedies to push for liberal climate change policies.	The commentary in these stories was as one sided as the rest of Trump's coverage has been with 88 percent of evaluative statements criticizing the President vs. a mere 12 percent that praised him.	Thus our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line Republicans supporting Trump Democrats criticizing him and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story such as statements from experts presented as non partisan voters or opinionated statements from the networks own reporters.	Using these criteria MRC analysts tallied 121 evaluative statements about the Trump administrations approach to the environment from January 20 to August 31 2017 of which 106 88 were negative vs. a mere 15 12 which were positive.	False
The ReutersIpsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3281 people.	The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming including disputes over its existence have grown deep roots distorting the way Americans view the world around them.	It found that 22 of Republicans reported personally experiencing climate change compared to 60 of Democrats.	For more conservative Americans the link between weather and climate change is not a typical conversation Marlon said.	It has a credibility interval a measure of precision of 2 percentage points up or down.	False
Whats the takeaway from all this?	They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos.	Pre Extinction Powerful and suggests another mass extinction is imminent if we do not change our ways today.	The Great Collapse The collapse of ecosystems economies and our way of life.	Both are states of events that you absolutely want to avoid.	False
While political spin doctors often find ways to parse language and statistics to say things that are plausibly defensible but which are ultimately misleading or just wrong for me such misrepresentations have gone too far in an area where I have some considerable expertise Pielke wrote.	Her call even got a reaction from NPR which defended its reporting but was sympathetic to her message.	The willingness of some in the media and the scientific community to offer false or misleading claims does not offer a route to scientific integrity Pielke wrote.	Pielkes career beentargetedby Democratic lawmakers and activist journalists to impress a billionaire donor.	California Democratic Gov.	False
Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue.	However there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence.	Skepticism and debate are always welcome and are critically important to the advancement of science the letter said.	I think its OK for us to ask questions and be skeptical about information Perry said in response according to a EE News report of the event.	Instead he opted to tell oneyoung lady to sit down and said its OK to be skeptical about information.	False
Its the biggest threat of all.	Most of the threats from climate change are 50 to 75 years out Wheeler asserted adding that the world should be focused on the people who are dying today the thousand children that die every day from lack of drinking water.	Early in his tenure former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt prioritized fixing Superfund the struggling and financially strapped program responsible for cleaning up the nations most contaminated sites.	Pruitt said that it wasnt a lack of money that was plaguing the program but rather poor leadership and poor focus on the part of the Obama administration.	Lets put aside the fact that climate change is not some distant challenge but one already wreaking havoc on communities around the globe and that Wheeler has proposed gutting existing regulations that protect drinking water.	True
I am hopeful that the exposure of such intolerance will lead to an improved working environment in my department and among others in my discipline Mass said via email Wednesday.	The picture has since been removed.	The assistant deans email claimed the blog had imagery and text that was racially insensitive and caused offense to a significant number of members in the departmental community.	Name calling and politicization of science are toxic to the scientific enterprise and undermines our credibility in the general community.	I 1631 will be a trough of billions of dollars of cash for left leaning social action and progressive groups and dealing with climate change will be a secondary priority Mass wrote in a blog post with a picture of pigs feeding at a trough.	False
Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953.	U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy.	Erik Grafe an attorney with Earthjustice welcomed the ruling saying it shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans wildlife and climate.	The American Petroleum Institute a defendant in the case disagreed with the ruling.	In the Atlantic Mr. Obama banned exploration in 5937 square miles of underwater canyon complexes citing their importance for marine mammals deep water corals valuable fish populations and migratory whales.	False
In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll 83 of Democrats thought the US should be doing more compared to 62 of independents and 26 of Republicans.	That's up from 2010 when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them.	Eight in 10 Democrats 54 of independents and 22 of Republicans thought in August that climate change has an impact the fires.	Fewer Republicans one third said more should be done about climate change and another third of Republicans thought that the US is doing enough to address climate change.	The Trump administration chose to speed up release of the new report which is required by law putting it out on Black Friday instead of in December.	False
The abolition of slavery.	Womens suffrage and womens rights.	The climate movement not least in cities is right now in the tradition of all the great moral causes that have improved the circumstances of humanity throughout our history Gore said in the speech.	Fox Friends criticized Gore for comparing the climate change fight to fights against moral issues such as slavery and apartheid in a July 13 speech at the Ecocity World summit in Australia.	The civil rights movement and the anti apartheid movement in South Africa.	False
You have no love or admiration for nature.	Jobs matter!	We stand committed to preserving the natural beauty of our nation.	Public radio show host Al Letson wrote How will you preserve the natural beauty of the land if you dismantle the Nathan Bernard from Brooklyn New York replied on Twitter You say Happy as you prepare to literally blow up the entire earth.	Were going to have safety were going to have clean water were going to have clean air but so many regulations are unnecessary so many are job killing Trump said in March.	False
Carbon dioxide is actually a benefit to the world and so were the Jews.	In July 2014 Professor Happer caused controversy during an interview on CNBC television climate expert demonization of carbon dio200107 in the United States when he claimed that the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poor Jews under Hitler.	The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers and the recruitment of supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy echoes the campaign by Joseph Stalins regime to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the disastrous lysenko soviet union russia548786 pseudo scientific theories of Trofim Lysenko.	Lysenko wrongly believed that acquired traits could be passed on by parents to their offspring.	He was also forced to defend himself after Greenpeace revealed an exchange of email messages Email Chain Happer O Keefe and Donors Trust.html during which Professor Happer discussed writing reports to promote climate change denial in exchange for a secret fee paid to the CO2 Coalition.	False
Seychelles President Danny Faure said Our large ocean brings development opportunities but also responsibility.	The Oscar winner said This effort will help the people of Seychelles protect their ocean for future generations and will serve as a model for future marine conservation projects worldwide.	Under the terms of the 21m 15m deal the charity and the investors including the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation paid for a portion of the Seychelles national debt.	By planning properly to protect our environment we can be sure we are also protecting our people and their livelihoods against an uncertain future.	In exchange for getting some of its national debt paid off the island nation has agreed to protect 210000 sq km 81000 sq miles of ocean.	False
Im sure theres giant corruption going on.	But Lovelock has since renounced this view.	So saysJames Lovelock 98 one of the worlds pre eminent environmentalists in a wide ranging interview on todays Delingpole podcast for Breitbart.	There is global warming.	Its as stupid as saying you should never go out of your home because if you do theres a chance youll be killed by something or other.	True
Many of those laws remain in place.	Why do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel said Jim Wilson a 71 year old retired mail carrier from Placerville outside Sacramento.	Comments can be submitted online through March 9.	Jerry Brown and others to request a similar exemption.	The state agencies weighed in ahead of a public meeting Thursday in Sacramento the only opportunity for people to register their opinions in person to the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.	False
On Wednesday one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	In a way that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy.	As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling the reason she called for the Obama era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a reasoned explanation as to why its flawed.	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda the Trump administration has had one goal in mind destroying former President Obamas environmental legacy.	U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a reasoned explanation for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	False
He is a flawed character Stephen Lacey editor in chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia said on his podcast The Energy Gang last year.	While Gore has become one of the most prominent advocates for reducing carbon emissions and fighting to reduce the effect of climate change the former vice president has not been immune from claims that his work is not as altruistic as it appears.	Releasing the report on Black Friday is a transparent attempt by the Trump administration to bury this report and continue the campaign of not only denying but suppressingthe best of climate science said study co author Andrew Light an international policy expert at the World Resources Institute.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Gore left the vice presidents residence with a relatively modest net worth of 1.7 million mostly from family farm assets but since the release of his 2006 documentary An Inconvenient Truth and his continuing global tour to preach his message he has amassed a fortune valued at upward of 200 million.	True
Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers but it will come at a price penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform.	Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers.	False
I have a strong opinion.	No.	Were going to have that.	He said Managing the forest is part of it.	And there are fears that the eventual death toll will rise much higher with almost 1300 people still unaccounted for.	False
Families where many people have cancer.	These communities need justiceand I will stand with them she added	As Ive traveled this country Ive heard the human stories from frontline communities.	Warren argues that justice plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change crisis citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people Warren calls this phenomenon environmental racism and concludes that environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long.	In this instance it is the Superfund Waste Tax.	False
Unfortunately for the American people Zinke leaves behind a deputy secretary with similar ethical concerns.	The next secretary should respect public desire for strong environmental standards and an end to corporate favoritism.	And in a statement posted to Twitter the ongoing agency chief said he cannot justify spending thousands of dollars defending myself and my family against false allegations.	Because when America prospers the world is safer.	For all his feigned swagger Ryan Zinke lacked the courage or integrity to face accountability skipping town as soon as he faced scrutiny Evers said.	False
It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures.	Above and beyond its sinfulness failure to care for the environment is an injustice and a crime Francis suggested and should be legally enforced.	But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good.	We must introduce we are thinking about it in the Catechism of the Catholic Church the sin against ecology the ecological sin against the common home because it is a duty the pope said Friday in addressing participants in an international conference on penal law.	The pontiff said that such actions are usually caused by corporations and an elementary sense of justice would require that they be punished for them.	False
But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election.	During Tuesday's hearingNASAEarth Science Division Director Michael Freilich was asked about the scientific integrity of the administration's most recent climate assessment released in November which White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders described as not based on facts.	Lets have conservatives have a discussion instead of being in denial that this is a problem former Ohio GOP Gov.	The report is a comprehensive scientificallyrigorouslyanalysisand assessmentif the availableinformationprimarily from the U.S. government Freilich said.	As we careen toward irreversible environmental tipping points we have no time to waste debating alternative facts only to invest years more reestablishing trust in the real ones Kerry wrote.	True
The Paris Agreement endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC is a bedrock of international action against man made global warming.	The Group of Seven gathering the biggest western democracies comprises Britain Canada France Germany Italy Japan and the United States.	Lacking unanimity Italy which currently presides the Group of Seven decided against proposing the joint statement Calenda said.	Under Obama the United States the second biggest carbon polluter provided critical impetus for the Paris deal by concluding a precursor deal with China the number one emitter.	It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought flood rising seas and other climate impacts.	False
To make it cheaper for coal companies to strip mine in watersheds and make it more expensive for families to visit Yosemite is a perversion of American values said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club.	When its not personal then you revert to what your team has been saying and the values your team has.	That means wise use said Land Tawney president of Backcountry Hunters and Anglers a national conservation group headquartered in Montana.	As such the agency is often the arbiter between oil gas and mining companies seeking access to valuable resources embedded in public lands and environmentalists seeking to protect the same lands for biodiversity wildlife and recreation.	I think the secretary is a fraud.	True
Fifty one senators decided to put the best interests of taxpayers and the environment first and narrowly saved a rule to limit methane emissions.	For anyone growing cynical watching beltway politics Wednesdays victory on the methane rule was a rare and welcome reminder that common sense can still win out over the deep pockets of the oil and gas lobby.	The better we protect our environment the better we can protect people.	So when a vote to overturn a relatively obscure rule governing oil and gas drilling on public lands failed green groups were understandably jubilant.	The vote was a win for taxpayers a win for the environment a win for national security and a win for democracy.	False
It also fined the firm 431000.	The dispute offers a cautionary tale in what one critic described as regulatory capture of a state agency by a company with deep ties to the Trump administration and a reputation as an environmental pariah unafraid to deploy scorched earth tactics against its opponents.	Our only concern is while were supporting they at least have to follow the rules.	Theyve offered options when we were stuck.	The company has flagrantly challenged the OEPAs authority infuriating the agency and eliciting a rare public investigation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC the federal agency that regulates interstate electricity and natural gas operations.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	No matter what the answer is most or all of it.	Its as simple as that.	Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet.	Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is contributing to climate change Icant tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity.	False
2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April.	Greenpeace graded her an A and Sanders an A.	Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin.	There is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption Gunn Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon.	On a scale of 200 the Sunrise Movement the group that pushed the Green New Deal into the mainstream scored Warren at 168 and Sanders at 183.	False
Measures like Colorados anti fracking Proposition 112 and Washington states Initiative 1631 to price carbon emissions were defeated in part due to a firehose of money being unleashed by fossil fuel interests.	Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U turn going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025.	Environmentalists lamenting that a green wave didnt wash over Congress can find a glimmer of hope in the results of several key governor races.	That gives states like Nevada another lever to drive climate policies.	They also play a huge role in how federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act are enforced.	False
Dont they override or mightnt they override the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?	Should they just get out?	PS Has flood insurance basically induced people to take risks that they shouldnt be taking?	But right now during this era that were living in human activities and the burning of fossil fuels is by far the most powerful influence.	The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity.	False
It smells like death.	It smells like rotting corpses or carcasses.	In Parrish townspeople are considering rescheduling childrens softball games or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink.	In an earlier trash saga a barge laden with 3186 tons 2890 metric tons of non toxic paper and commercial garbage from Long Island and New York City wandered the ocean for months in 1987 seeking a place to dump it after plans by a private developer to turn it into methane gas in North Carolina fell through.	The sludge smells of dead rotting animals as well as human waste West Jeffersons attorney said in a lawsuit against Big Sky Environmental LLC.	False
If you dont defend these standards the Sierra Club and our allies will.	As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitts conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement however its important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting.	Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants.	Nothing better illustrates this than the sweetheart deal Pruitt received from the wife of a dirty energy lobbyist who had business before the EPA .	Have you lost your mind?	False
Congress should address that at some point.	And with all respect really that's where I have to focus on.	... Those are things so important to citizens of Florida right now and to discuss the cause and effect of these storms there's the... place and time to do that it's not now.	After Harvey 'we have to protect ourselves' After Harvey 'we have to protect ourselves'	To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	True
Because that wealth allows us to take care of people.	Im an environmentalist.	During the climate meeting leaders approved a 20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G 7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron US France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said.	I want clean air.	I want a wealthy country.	False
Set aside for the moment the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours seven consecutive hours of prime time programming to the subject.	Bernie Sanders suggested global population control encouraged by organizations that promote abortion abroad.	Banning nuclear energy.	5.	No compromises on the road to utopia.	False
A huge monument spanning nearly 500000 acres and proclaimed in May 2014.	The area was protected to safeguard an ecosystem of deep sea corals three species of whale and an endangered species of sea turtle the Kemps ridley.	Covering nearly 300000 acres of remote desert north east of Las Vegas the Gold Butte monument was created by Obama in December 2016.	Environmental groups have vowed legal action to stymie any alterations to the protected areas.	Roxanne Quimby co founder of Burts Bees cosmetics and her foundation purchased tracts of land in the northern reaches of Maine with the purpose of creating a national park.	False
Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models.	Advocacy groups package these talking points for easy consumption by journalists who eagerly repeat them.	Anyone trying to score political points after a natural disaster should take a deep breath and review the science first.	These conclusions are hardly controversial in the climate science community.	Some found it ironic that states represented by climate deniers were being pummeled by hurricanes.	False
They dont want to be informed.	They go to the same little trough of Kool Aid every day.	Ive heard the climate change argument back and forth.	What makes Zinkes statements during his trip to California so astonishing is that they come two days after he stressed the importance of being informed and open minded.	And they dont want to expand their paradigm and look at the actual facts.	False
The people have been heard and will continue to be heard Brune said.	I pledged to take action and today I am keeping that promise he said.	Greenpeace USAs senior climate and energy campaigner Diana Best also released a statement condemning Trumps executive order.	As expected the response to Trumps executive order from the environmental community was swift and harsh.	So far Trumps energy policies have aimed at reversing the plentiful environmental protections established by his predecessor former President Barack Obama.	False
Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society.	Thats the problem with the U.N. that they come up with these policy ideas that are just La La Land.	a climate change skeptic said of the actions urged by the report.	Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests.	How is that new?	False
Trumps action empowers Pruitt to ignore science and data in determining compliance with air quality standards saidSara JordanLegislative Representative for the League of Conservation Voters.	One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an expresspriority saidJohn Walke director of theNatural Resources Defense Council's clean air program.	Another would permit the EPA to discount many studies used as the basis for air quality standards for a lack of transparency because those analyses use individual health datathat cant be disclosed because they're protected under federal privacy laws.	These actions are intended to ensure that EPA carries out its core missions of protecting the environment and improving air quality in accord with statutory requirements while reducing unnecessary impediments to new manufacturing and business expansion essential for a growing economy the presidentsaid in a statement accompanying the order.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters.	False
ORourkes measures include U.S. re entry into the Paris Climate Agreement ordering a reduction in methane emissions from oil and gas operations halting new drilling leases on federal land and restoring pollution standards for power plants.	The greatest threat we face which will test our country our democracy every single one of us is climate change ORourke said in a statement.	ORourke the former Texas congressman made climate change the focus of his first major policy announcement unveiling the plan ahead of a campaign stop meeting with scientists at the iconic Yosemite National Park in California.	Other candidates have announced some specific policy measures related to climate change and the environment in recent weeks and Warren has unveiled a public lands policy that would ban new drilling and mining leases on federal lands.	Environmental group the League of Conservation Voters on Monday praised ORourkes plan saying that it offered the kind of leadership we need from the next president.	False
Taken together they provide a comprehensive platform for clean energy and climate policy that can serve as a golden standard and a beacon of hope for the rest of the planet until common sense returns to the White House.	This summer in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state this nation and the world.	Most importantly policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities.	Clean energy isnt just good for the planet its good for consumers monthly utility bills and for the economy.	In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best.	False
Namely that priority is climate change.	These records reveal Trumps active censorship of science in the name of his political agenda said Meg Townsend open government attorney at the Center for Biological Diversity.	To think that federal agency staff who report about the air water and soil that sustains the health of our nation must conform their reporting with the Trump administrations anti science rhetoric is appalling and dangerous for America and the greater global community.	In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms Moebius Clune wrote that references to economic growth emerging business opportunities in the rural US agro tourism and improved aesthetics should be tolerated if not appreciated by all.	Last week it was revealed that Clovis who is not a scientist once ran a blog where he called progressives race traders and race traitors and likened Barack Obama to a communist.	False
Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top tier concern.	So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	Ahead of the election polls showed that more than 60 percent of Virginians wanted their government to do more about climate change.	Candidates like Joshua Cole who won the election for Virginias 28th House District campaigned on environmental action including upgrading infrastructure to make it more resilient and deploying clean energy.	Like the Green New Deal resolution introduced in the US Congress Virginias version aims to move the state to 100 percent renewable energy while pursuing social welfare programs like job retraining for workers who would lose their jobs in the transition.	False
Why the push abroad?	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March.	As a responsible developing country Chinas plan determination and policy to tackle climate change is resolute Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the Associated Press.	It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when thats less politically popular in China.	False
Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil.	You are failing us.	Right here right now is where we draw the line.	People are suffering.	And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth.	False
We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns he said.	We're not going to rush to make a decision.	But a couple of things are missing.	We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States.	They signed an agreement which stated there was a need for urgent global action.	True
Undoing the rule threatens to upend that uniformity.	This is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakersMcCarthy now the director of Harvard Universitys Center for Health and the Global Environmenttold HuffPost.	Carol Browner who served as the agencys chief from 1993 to 2001 said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations.	The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation noting that the social cost of carbon and energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence.	She noted that the Golden State compromised on a number of rules including a zero emissions vehicle program.	False
Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass.	Farmers supported the Trump administrations proposal last week tofinalize the rollback of the Obama era Waters of the U.S. rule which had put new restrictions on which waterways agribusiness could pollute.	We call on Congress to put the Green in the Green New Deal Wednesdays letter reads by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this countrys middle class to make family farming economically viable again and to help reverse climate change and improve Americas air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again.	The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10000 members.	Yet even as farmers reel from the effects of President Donald Trumps trade war with China Democratic candidates are far from guaranteed their votes.	False
In an indication of likely conservative opposition to Gaetz'splan advocacy group FreedomWorks issued a statement calling it a sad example of Republicans thinking theyre conservatives by being slightly to the right of far left.	EVIL' His plan which he is putting forward in a House resolutioninvolves a number of planks including revisitingglobal trade and intellectual property policies to create an international marketplace fair to American innovators.	Do we really believe that if we outlaw cars cows planes and buildings that the rest of the world will follow?	Traditionally Republicans have been more skeptical about mans influence on the climate.	But this year it has emerged in the Democratic mainstream with a resolution introduced in the House and support from most major 2020 Democratic presidential candidates.	False
Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli.	But we've stuck to our guns.	You are really exposed to the reality of the situation when you live by the sea says campaigner Zana Kontamanoli.	A shocking 95 of waste in the Mediterranean is plastic.	Research shows that when recycling is separated people are less likely to just chuck all their waste in and contaminate it says Kontamanoli.	False
Why is the difference so important?	So the basis of all previous disagreements stems from who gets access to what.	Sunday's agreement goes some way to settling this dispute.	It is an important step in the easing of regional tensions but the deal over the world's largest inland body of water matters for several reasons.	This is important because...	False
This story is part of a group of stories called Vox Sentences is your daily digest for whats happening in the world.	Buzzfeed News Otillia Steadman If a person can accomplish all of that positivity with so little imagine what they could do with a little bit of support and encouragement.	Your daily wrap up for the day in news.	Roll Call Michael Macagnone The Council on Foreign Relations Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters granting political agency dividing up federal funds and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations.	NBC29 CJ Paschall Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses.	False
Well this is the end result of that decision.	Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	We told you last week that the DNC refused to allow their 2020 Democratic candidates to debate the issue of Climate Change.	They were afraid that it would end up hurting whichever candidate goes into the general election next year.	Along with the candidates the network also announced the CNN journalists and the approximate appearance times for the presidential hopefuls during the seven hour live event.	False
They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory.	Of course the purpose of studies such as these which remarkably continue to receive funding is ultimately practical rather than speculative.	Event attributionthe ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warmingis exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst even according to true believers.	At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012 one participant argued that given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims they are unjustifiably speculative basically unverifiable and better not made at all.	Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude with unusual modesty that better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming.	False
Lawmakers pointing to President Donald Trump's skepticism about climate change and his administration's steady rollback of measures meant to mitigate the impacts of global warming were scathing.	Those omissions are just one reason lawmakers greeted the Congressionally mandated report with eviscerating criticism on Friday.	The report is an inadequate incomplete partisan document said Sen. Jack Reed the ranking Democratic member of the Armed Services Committee.	The report reads like an introductory primer and carries about as much value as a phonebook he said.	The Pentagon report notes that the department is incorporating climate resilience as a cross cutting consideration for our planning and decision making process and not as a separate program or specific set of actions.	False
Conservation must remain a way of life.	The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water.	Brown also said the need for conservation continued.	California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation among other measures.	The drought cost the agricultural economy billions killed an estimated 100 million trees led a half million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water.	False
Liz Perera climate policy director for the Sierra Club said repealing the Clean Power Plan is about one thing and one thing only helping corporate polluters profit.	They are denying it just as they are denying the science.	Industry groups cheered the planned repeal saying it would reverse regulatory overreach by Obama and McCarthy.	The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43 page document which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry.	The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers said Hal Quinn president and CEO of the National Mining Association.	False
This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations said David Doniger senior strategic director of the Climate Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science public safety and reality said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	This would ease an Obama era rule that was a central target in critics' accusations of a war on coal.	Environmental groups argue that in order to reduce climate change risks the world will have to stop burning coal.	Previous actions include relaxing Obama era regulations on carbon emissions and mercury emissions as well as rolling back existing regulations that govern coal ash.	False
We can't have a thriving economy if you don't have a healthy clean environment.	We have many priorities at the agency.	President Trump has an America First policy he said.	But in terms of climate leadership it is exactly the opposite.	And now of course it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation.	False
Recentlyhe said that the global warming fight was in the same vein as great moral causes of humanity in the past like the Civil Rights cause of the 60s and abolition.	Gore asked.	Well arguments about science arent necessarily going to be any comfort to you and Im sorry for what youre going through Gore said.	But Im just not seeing it he said.	Gore is currently making the rounds to publicize the sequel to his global climate documentary An Inconvenient Truth.	False
The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape does not support the scenario of over exploitation.	We contest the common narrative that past human environment interactions must always be one of over exploitation and degradation.	Previous studies have put the blame for the collapse of the 'Green Sahara' onto these nomads who have often been marginalised in history but this latest studies dispels that myth.	Our study shows that increasing human population and sustainable pastoralism did not accelerateand may even have delayedthe decline of the 'Green Sahara'.	It is thought that early pastoralists in North Africa developed intricate ways to efficiently manage sparse vegetation and relatively dry and low fertility soils.	False
A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	All we have to do is give up our common sense.	When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	Still Ocasio Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action itll solve every problem under the sun including racism and bigotry.	Tidal generators beach whales with such frequency that if it were a Republican backed project environmental groups would be having conniptionfits and endless marches.	False
The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request fromthe Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama era policy known as the Clean Power Plan.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Master will be working on a wide range of civil and criminal investigations and enforcement matters including public corruption complex civil litigation Eric Soufer a spokesman for Schneiderman told WSJ.	Schneidermanhas made fighting what he calls man made global warming a crucial part of his duties as New Yorkstop law office.	Schneiderman hired Howard Master a prosecutor who served under an Obama appointed U.S. attorney to focus on corruption cases involving the Trump administration.Masters primary responsibility according to Schneidermans office will be investigating and possibly prosecuting the Trump administration for possible civil rights abuses.	False
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a not for profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	Ding Dong the Witch is Dead.	They recognised us as the pre eminent organisation opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote.	Still waiting for Chris Mooney and Juliet Eilperin at the WaPo and Seth Borenstein at AP to flame out Bast writes.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	False
I've heard the climate change argument back and forth.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	However Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry.	We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access that have refused to allow the harvest of timber Zinke told Breitbart Monday.	Earlier this week Zinke blamed environmental terrorist groups for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio.	False
She said in a statement that unlike Pruitt Wheeler understands the mission of the EPA and acts in accordance with ethical standards.	Wheelers long experience in public service demonstrates his integrity in serving EPAs mission she said.	However the policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	Environmental groups meanwhile slammed Wheeler saying that while his behavior is less cartoonish than Pruitt he supports the same policies.	During his time as acting administrator Andrew Wheeler has been seen as a thoughtful leader who understands the need for sensible environmental policies said Michelle Bloodworth the groups president and CEO.	False
Yummy or yucky?	I ask a three year old what she thinks.	What for some might be food hell has got my tastebuds jumping with curious excitement we're about to eat jellyfish.	I'm not entirely convinced.	I ask.	False
Conservative lungs and other bodily organs are as vulnerable to pollution bred terminal ailments and the violent effects of climate change as their liberal counterparts.	Lets be clear about what is at issue here.	When you go through the list of health standards slated for Pruitts abolition you wonder whether there are any limits to his cold blooded corporatized agenda.	History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self inflicted wounds and scandals.	Thats when you know that the officious Pruitt doesnt even care about appearances much less the perils of lawless and secretive influence peddling that enriches President Trumps investments.	True
Speakers included 350.org founder Bill McKibben The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones activist and Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinezand MayorDale Rossof deep red Georgetown Texas whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism.	That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require.	This is going to be the Great Society the moon shot the civil rights movement of our generation she said.	Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. who has made championing a so called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday.	Despite stark policy differences with his chief rival in the primaries former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton supported fracking and raisedtwice as much from the oil and gas industryas her Republican opponent climate change remained a policy backwater in the election.	True
Another problem which compounds the first is that they get greedy.	First they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility.	They might also think they missed a crucial plot point if the protagonists proposed a sweeping government effort to stop the meteor and then when given the opportunity to vote for it voted present in protest.	Like a high school game of telephone this quickly became a blanket statement that we have twelve years to save the planet.	They were right.	True
However Morris argued that the department had not given areasoned explanation for how it came to this conclusion.	Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available.	In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation.	These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA Morris wrote.	In November 2015 former President Barack Obamas administration blocked the pipelines construction citing potential environmental impact.	False
It adds to evidence that the Earth at that time had surface water and other conditions to support life and wasn't as hot and as inhospitable as scientists used to think said Daniele Pinti a geochemist at the University of Quebec at Montreal.	For the moment it looks very convincing he added.	The researchers write that the ratio found in one sample provides the oldest evidence for autotrophs organisms that can produce their own food either through photosynthesis or by using inorganic compounds such as sulphur in their environment.	Were there oceans?	That's uncertain Bell said.	False
Unacceptable and immoral.	We need a vision and a plan to not willful ignorance.	Ignore distort or censor.	The reports lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human caused climate change.	Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change.	False
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	SteveGorehamis a speaker on the environment business and public policy and author of thebookOutside the Green Box Rethinking Sustainable Development.	While advocates of climate common sense are pleased with the recent court decisions the acceptance that humans are causing dangerous climate change by the oil and gas defendants is very disappointing.	Note that Judge Alsup is not a conservative judge.	Last week the US House of Representativespasseda resolution opposing a carbon tax.	False
That is just completely and totally unacceptable.	There is no excuse for failure.	This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle.	The partisan nature of the debate was not lost on the audience as one attendee interrupted the proceedings to ask Where are the Republicans?	This is not a red or a blue issue he said.	False
Who knows what a frog is worth?	Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that the value of life on earth is priceless and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is too expensive to prevent extinction.	If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing.	Because who knows what a snail is worth?	If these regulations had been in place in the 1970s the bald eagle and the grey whale would be extinct today.	True
'Greta embodies the moral authority of the youth activist movement demanding that we act immediately to solve the climate crisis.	Another wrote 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'.	during the UN General Assembly this year.	By lunchtime the hashtag was trending on the social media platform with one popular response reading 'A 16 year old with Asperger's and non native English speaker has better social and communications skills than the current President of the United States.	The teen girl with Asperger's syndrome is the face of the youth climate movement drawing large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences since last year.	False
Environmental Protection Agency chief Andrew Wheeler a former coal industry lobbyist signed a replacement rule that gives states leeway in deciding whether to require efficiency upgrades at existing coal plants.	The Trump administration on Wednesday completed one of its biggest rollbacks of environmental rules replacing a landmark Obama era effort that sought to wean the nation's electrical grid off coal fired power plants and their climate damaging pollution.	In April for the first time ever the US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal in a single month.	The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy.	In 2016 it was dethroned as the America's fuel of choice by natural gas a feat aided in part by a thriving hydro fracking industry that continues to pump abundant fossil fuels out of the Bakken Oil Shale in North Dakota.	False
The protests which have lasted for weeks have even become deadly.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Its proved time and time again to be not politically popular and we havent even priced the policy at where economists say it needs to be.	Initiative 1631 for example was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country.	RELATED Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administrations Event At UN Meeting Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy.	False
Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive.	This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical Polar Biology the press release said.	USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice terrifying but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective.	While rising temperatures have certainly put a strain on species in some parts of the world a new study by researchers at the University of Southern Denmark suggests animals in the Arctic region are thriving as because of higher global temperatures.	Current data suggest about 14.28 million square km of sea ice remain.	False
The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that.	This is the latest in a series of reports from the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.	Together those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions including more than 40 of methane.	The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally.	Given how much land it takes to grow food to feed livestock meat production is a leading cause of deforestation.	False
Sometimes the pot calls the kettle black.	And to me the answer is innovation.	But the question is What do we do about it about whatever risk there is?	Its one thing to be an ignorant fool but its quite something else to allow ones malicious ignorance to potentially threaten the entire planet Mann said.	We oppose all of these because they end up being cronyism.	True
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	TIME listed Greta Thunberg a 16 year old climate change activist on its list of the 100 most influential people of 2019.	Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote.	Erosion of fertile topsoil deforestation of the rainforest toxic air pollution loss of insects and wildlife acidification of our oceans these are all disastrous trends said Thunberg barely able to keep her tears back.	RELATED Another Canadian Province Boots Liberals Out Of Power Over Carbon Taxes Environmentalists even some climate scientists are increasingly promoting Thunbergs actions in an effort to draw more young people into climate activism.	False
The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor.	To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator.	These people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this timehe added referring to the Trump administration.	But the proposal to scrap the policy without any kind of replacement to curb greenhouse gases underscores the extent to which the Trump administrations refusal to acknowledge basic climate science is leaving the country vulnerable to global warming effects that are no longer theoretical.	Wildfires are raging through Californias wine country.	False
For example The Washington Posts write up of the IPCCs report focused on the mainline findings namely that the world is woefully off target to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data.	RELATED Its The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming Until The Next Chance When it comes to droughts for example the IPCC admits there is low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale.	Delegates are expected to make further commitments to implement the Paris climate accord that calls for limiting future warming below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100.	The report added that streamflow trends since 1950 are non statistically significant in most of the worlds largest rivers.	False
The Council argues in favor of finding ways to humanely stabilize population as a means of mitigating the effects of global warming.	The antidote to the Councils doomsday predictions are to take the world back to pre industrial levels of CO2 emissions the text declares conjuring images of bearded Amish people driving about in horse drawn carriages.	Not only present evils however but future calamities are also prophesied with astounding exactitude and certainty.	Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions however the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal population control.	Humanity must restore a safe level of greenhouse gas concentrations and global average temperatures well below todays levels and back to pre industrial levels as quickly as possible it states.	False
It's political and it's practical.	They need to be more thoughtful.	This really is about interaction economic development.	Jerry Brown and Lt. Gov.	And they need to be inclusive.	False
This gives you an idea of just how badly infected are the nations of the free world by the green virus.	Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public.	Here are some of the highlights Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti Christian society If science was all about consensus wed still be living in caves Greens want to make life nasty brutish and short Wheres the evidence for climate catastrophe?	We think wererational but where green policy is concerned were little better than the Aztecs Oh and by the way the way were carrying on Western Civilization is on its way out	Butyou rarely hear itsotrenchantly expressed by a former world leader as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex Prime Minister Tony Abbott in ahard hitting must read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation.	False
The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added.	We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral.	We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of Gods creation including the complex beautiful and life sustaining planet earth.	inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer.	The one Catholic priest and three Protestant clergy criticized Sen. Steve Daines R Mont.	True
pic.twitter.comJhjVBr1hU3 Sam Sweeney September 23 2019 Mondays protests come on the heels of a worldwide climate strike on Friday a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the largest climate rally ever.	Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal additional measures to protect indigenous peoples land and a broad push toward climate justice.	The organizers said their goal was to shut down the center of decision making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy.	pic.twitter.comNWIO1aRvM3 Alejandro Alvarez September 23 2019 Climate activists are shutting down major intersections throughout DC.	Im in downtown DC where climate activists with Extinction Rebellion have blocked the intersection of K and 16th streets with a big sailboat that says rebel for life.	False
Like this story?	The campaign claims it merely left out the citations.	Caught in a pile of lies the campaign responded with a strikingly similar excuse To the degree it wasn't attributed it was an oversight or inadvertent Biden's 1988 campaign aide told the New York Times.	Biden's campaign waited the better part of a day to address the charges as the news spread buoyed by anger at the candidate over news he'd lied about marching in the civil rights movement finally telling Business Insider that while they had inadvertently left out several citations from the final version of the document posted to the website it had been updated to include references.	Biden's habit of plagiarism dates back to his first presidential campaign in 1988 when he lifted a popular speech from a UK politician that mischaracterized his own family background implyinghe was descended from coal miners and the first in his family to attend university.	False
Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of dirty power plants.	The Sierra Club distributed a press release on Wednesday announcing it had received the 64 million donation to support its Beyond Coal campaign and other organizations with the same ideology that would like to put all coal operations out of business and the American workers who depend on them out of work.	It was started and continues to be led by communities in both red and blue states who are tired of having their air and water poisoned when there are cleaner and cheaper alternatives available cities and states that are determined to clean their air and reduce their costs and businesses seeking to lower their energy bills while also doing their part for the climate.	Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said.	President Trumpsignedan executive order in March ordering a review of the Clean Power Plan as well as other environmental regulations.	False
This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible.	The fact is it is not.	... We have to do it ourselves.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	There's no national policy to do it right now.	True
They refuse to see it accept being ignorant and continue their refusal to acknowledge that climate change is real and it will have and already has had devastating effects on the planet.	With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria it cannot be ignored any longer.	However with a Trump administration it will be if allowed.	Wehrum tried to sleazily worm his way out of answering the simple question.	The truly maddening part though is that Merkley showed the American people that its not just ignorance its intentional ignorance.	True
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	This represents a 1 percent decrease from the previous year and a 14 percent decrease since 2005.	Claim 3 From 2005 to 2017 this country has reduced emissions by 14 percent claimed Perry.	He also threw his support behind a 7 billion electrical transmission project to send renewable energy to communities across the state.	Here are four checks on claims from the interview.	False
Meanwhile he doesnt want to sacrifice the economic well being of our country for something that nobody really knows.	Trump may believe in climate change now but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have a very big political agenda.	Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA said Democrats should focus on the practical and the opportunistic in the short term while working toward big picture aspirational goals in the long term.	Some might argue the concept of a long term when it comes to the environment was rendered irrelevant by the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report.	While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive he is now convinced that somethings changing and itll change back again according to aninterviewhe gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday.	False
They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson Elon Musk and Bill Gates in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton.	Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trumps decision to withdraw from the agreement.	To answer that question Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live.	Can we really be sure that these people take carbon emissions seriously?	But hold on for a minute.	False
The conclusion?	And on that score paper bags fare worse.	Not necessarily.	Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost free.	Back in 2011 Britains Environment Agency conducted a life cycle assessment of various bag options looking at every step of the production process.	False
So anyone who cares about extinctions and biodiversity needs to care about the future of coral reefs.	This team of researchers advocates rat eradication projects on islands throughout the world.	By killing seabirds this study revealed rats disrupt a healthy ecosystem that depends on the seabird droppings which fertilise the reefs surrounding the island.	Rats decimate seabird populations in turn decimating the volume of bird droppings a natural coral fertiliser.	The islands with no rats are full of birds they're noisy the sky is full and they smell because the guano the birds are depositing back on the island is very pungent.	False
How are animals faring in the fires?	What's the latest on the ground?	There appears to be little respite.	People who cannot defend their property from approaching fires have been told they should leave immediately.	It hasn't come close to the fatalities of 2009 when nearly 200 people died but the scale of the damage has been huge.	False
Now left unattended and gathering trash and human waste the Trump administration has let them reflect us at our worst.	This story was originally published bytheGuardian.	While the majority of the public will be respectful there will always be a few who take advantage of the opportunity to do lasting damage.	It is a violation of the stewardship mandate motivated only by politics.	Absolutely American absolutely democratic they reflect us at our best rather than our worst.	False
A quasi fascist policy of fear mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trumps response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos said Ashley Dawson author ofExtreme Cities The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change.	By deporting hundreds of thousands of Central Americans from the United States the administration like the Obama administration before it is bolstering gang recruitment in countries like El Salvador according to a December report from the International Crisis Group.	That worsens the violence that many cite as a main reason for fleeing northward.	Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress.	But he didnt take advantage of that opportunity.	False
What risks do protesters take?	Lecuyer stresses that non violence is part of our action consensus it is forbidden to harm the security forces site employees or to damage the equipment.	Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience especially among young people.	Tadzio Mueller a German organiser of the movement argues that massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos.	Meanwhile they plan to organise in so called affinity groups of up to 10 people of similar physical fitnessand a willingness to be arrested for trespassing and other offences.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Now those officials are preparing to discard sound scientific methods to pretend that their actions will be less deadly than they really are.	Particulate matter is extremely harmful and it leads to a large number of premature deaths Richard Revesz an environmental law expert at New York University told the Times.	He admitted to the Times that the new method would allow the Trump administration to claim its other changes would cause fewer deaths.	Using an approach described by experts as not scientifically sound the Trump administration will soon change the way it evaluates the harm from coal plants spewing more pollution into the air according to a Monday New York Times report.	False
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a non profit promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	Ding Dong the Witch is Dead.	They recognized us as the pre eminent organization opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote.	Still waiting for Chris Mooney and Juliet Eilperin at the WaPo and Seth Borenstein at AP to flame out Bast writes.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	False
Soot pollution is deadlier and more of a health hazard than smog causingmore premature deaths and lung cancer the lung association said.	The state would be much worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants.	The bad news came fromthe American Lung Association's annual State of the Air report which covers the years 2015 2017.	About 141 million Americans live with unhealthful levels of air pollution the report says placing them at risk for premature death lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	The boom in people brings an increase in cars and trucks on the roads and many of those people live in valleys and basins right where pollution tends to settle.	True
I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result.	Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	Tim Donnellyis a former California State Assemblyman and Author currently on a book tour for his new bookPatriot Not Politician Win or Go Homeless.	Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal combustion engines Mary Nichols chairman of theCalifornia Air Resources Board said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away she said.	California has had the right to write its own pollution rules since the 1970s underwaivers granted by the EPA.	False
The American political conversation about climate is indeed scary and depressing.	As the CEO of one of Americas historically coal dependent utilities Tom Fanning of the Southern Company says You cant keep waves off the beach.King Canute knew this.	Lets begin with bringing back coal.	The Nevada legislature went for 40 percent but has not yet been able to overturn a similar veto.	The world rightfully worries when they hear Donald Trump proclaim he is going to bring back coal and watch the administration and the Republican Congress try to roll back such common sense requirements limits on the wasteful flaring and leaking of methane from oil and gas fields.	False
Its a matter of survival former Kiribati President Anote Tong said after meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama that year.	Nearly 200 countries eventually signed onto the Paris climate accord.	That warning was made in 1988 amid heightened urgency about global warming.	When the United Nations met in 2015 to hash out the Paris climate accord Kiribati joined other island nations in calling for an international agreement to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	That may come as a shock in light of reports that Pacific Islanders in places like Kiribati are becoming climate refugees because of rising sea levels which many scientists blame on greenhouse gas emissions.	False
The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons.	We should have higher taxes on the things that science says are probably bad for us than those that are probably good for us.	The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero.	This is analogous to taxing cigarettes and alcohol more than fruits and vegetables which everybody agrees makes sense.	New York investors including Goldman Sachs have made big bets on the preservation of the Paris deal according to The HuffingtonPost.	False
I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result.	Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	A ban for California could also still be decades away from implementation and just how far out remains to be seen Nichols said.	For example California could use vehicle registration rules or control the vehicles that can access state highways she said.	The Association of Global Automakers said consumers must be able to afford the cleaner cars that California says are needed to meet its climate goals.	False
This rule supports the administrations objective of facilitating energy dominance by encouraging increased domestic oil and gas production and reducing unnecessary burdens on stakeholders while ensuring safety and environmental protection the new rule says.	Want climate news in your inbox?	The Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement which was established after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico and regulates offshore oil and gas drilling has finalized a proposal for loosening the regulations as part of President Trumps efforts to ease restrictions on fossil fuel companies and encourage domestic energy production.	The rules created potentially unduly burdensome requirements for oil and natural gas production operators on the Outer Continental Shelf without meaningfully increasing safety of the workers or protection of the environment says the new 176 page rule which is scheduled in the coming days to be published in the Federal Register before becoming the administrations final policy.	WASHINGTON The Trump administration has completed its plan to roll back major offshore drilling safety regulations that were put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster in 2010 that killed 11 people and caused the worst oil spill in American history.	False
Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community.	Trump dismissedthe report saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man made.	Wouldnt be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now!	Be careful and try staying in your house Trump advised.	The study mandated to be released every four years under the National Climate Assessment from the multiagency Global Change Research Program was conducted by hundreds of government and external scientists.	True
Armin Laschet the governor of Germanys most populous state North Rhine Westphalia and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkels center right Union bloc called the outcome a wake up call for politics.	The French sent us a very clear message they want environment to be at the heart of our lives at the heart of the political game and that message has been spread across Europe he said.	Whoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went onto the streets will need to deliver now said Sven Giegold a leading candidate for the German Green party that scooped up more than 20 of the vote nationwide an increase of almost 10 compared with 2014.	Across Europe this was a vote to protect the climate he said.	She attributed the result to young peoples fears about global warming.	False
Others were less accusatory.	Like this story?	Elections have consequences.	Denying science has consequences.	But Gov.	False
So there was no majority opinion.	There are plenty of 63 or 72 cases where environmentally sound decisions in our view were made.	Its not like every environmental case was decided 54 Doniger said.	In this case his lone opinion became the law Bookbinder said.	One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered.	False
Well thats up to them right?	The United States has a seat at the table.	We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that.	The head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said America has nothing to apologise for on climate change and retains a seat at the negotiating table claiming After all were the United States.	This is not a message to anyone in the world that America should be apologetic of its CO2 position.	False
Environmentalists in California are willing to let the state dictate how they cook in their own kitchens in an attempt to save the planet.	And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame its an unthinkable loss.	USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation.	Its the only thing that people ever ask about Bruce Nilles who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute a Colorado based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency said in the USA Today report.	For natural gas companies its a threat to their existence.	False
Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock.	Rothman says thatdecreasing carbon emissions would be the best way to try to avoid the catastrophe.	A geophysics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that hes run the numbers on humanity facing a mass extinction event and the numbers are not good.	Daniel Rothman told the publication that we are approaching a threshold of catastrophe in the carbon cycle similar to that of the five previous periods of mass extinction over the last 540 million years.	The other a critical size or mass corresponds to the total carbon added to the oceans.	False
In many ways it is far worse than many had expected.	The question of unfairness cropped up again and again how the world's worst polluters China and India had no meaningful obligations placed on them by the deal.	Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called the decision one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st Century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing.	Leaders of the Nordic nations Sweden Finland Denmark Norway and Iceland also condemned the move.	Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world he tweeted.	False
When it comes to advice the agency receives the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua in which the pagans are instructed to choose this day whom you will serve either God or the gods of your fathers.	Pruitt appointed Paul Gilman as the head of the Board of Scientific Counselors.Gilman currently serves as the chief sustainability officer at the waste management and incinerator company Covanta.He has been a leading advocate for incinerating trash as a source of fuel for electricity.	For Pruitt anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down.	Wholly unaddressed by the directive is any counterpart prohibition on scientists funded by industries with conflicts of interest from serving as EPA advisors Richard Denison a lead senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund wrote in a blog post.	False
Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	Republicans fled the Senate some even claiming to the leave the state refusing to sign off on a bill that wouldlimit emissions and establishpollution permitsor allowances for each ton of carbon an industry plans to emit.	AnOregon climate change bill that prompted 12 Republican lawmakers to flee the Statehouse in Salem last weekhas hit yet another snagSenate President Peter Courtney a Democrat announced Tuesday that the chamber did not have enough votes to pass the legislation.	All we're saying is it shouldn't cost thousands of manufacturing jobs raise the gas tax by 20 cents a gallon to start out with and raise natural gas prices for people who heat their home by almost 50 percent.	And the only way we could do that and stop this vote is by not providing a quorum for Democrats to roll over us.. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Protesters in support of the climate bill were disappointed Tuesday after Courtney's announcement despite assurances by Democratic lawmakers who insisted they would find a path forward for the bill.	True
In that time the inaccessible land between the barbed wire fences has turned into a land of pristine nature and life.	Thecreationof the DMZ in 1953 marked a ceasefire in a war that divided Korea and resulted in the deaths of 2.5 million people including more than 36000 American soldiers.	The data collected in the DMZ took place from 2014 to 2017.	The NIE regularly updates Koreans about the state of nature in the DMZ through videos it posts on its social media accounts.	Previous data has been collected starting in 1974.	False
It should be one that centers on quality institutions and policies that leverage competition and consumer choice.	Unwittingly in conservatives quest for equal treatment of different energy sources they have adopted policies that reinforce governments role in dictating energy outcomes.	While the Left is happy to use regulation to promote specific forms of energy they find ideologically appealing the response from conservatives all too often has been to weakly offer the all of the above catchphrase as a counterweight.	An analysis of President Obamas environmental legacy by the American Action Forum found the negative effect of regulations on economic growth led to forgone environmental benefits richer economies tend to value clean air more and emit less relative to production and led to regulations that were about half as effective as claimed on paper.	Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles.	True
Mandating conservation however is drastically different from incentivizing it.	Browns latest plan Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life allows the state to oversee conservation goals it sets in urban water management agencies as well as to permanently prohibit activities it deems wasteful of the water supply.	But water conservation can only go so far.	Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months.	John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Browns assertion of state power in this area will give it permanent unchecked control over local water management decisions.	False
The decision by Khurelsukh's cabinet to distribute air purifiers is a very bad decision Davaadalai said.	Her machine which filters out toxic fumes cost her 300.	The non profit group Smog and Kids donated a South Korean made air ventilation system to a kindergarten in one of the capital's most polluted areas and the difference in air quality inside and outside the classrooms is palpable.	UNICEF reported that cases of respiratory infections have nearly tripled and pneumonia is now the second leading cause of death for children under five.	But Maria Neira the head of the WHO's public health department said the real solution to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it.	False
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	Who knows what we will find there!	There are several dangers that would face the colonists.	But what should happen after that first step?	Whenever humans leave the Earth they must take along a bubble of Earths environment which includes breathable air.	False
Its the height of irony given Europes virtue signaling last year.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	Corporate America is doing its part.	When individuals are free to choose when and how to adjust their daily lives to protect the environment without government compulsion requiring it the environment reaps the benefits.	There is nothing more vital for environmental protection than our freedom to protect the environment as individuals without Big Government and its endless red tape.	False
Our health hangs in the balance too.	Read Maryn McKennas New York Times story for more on this.	These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health.	Its not just the future of the environment thats at stake here.	The Paris agreement was no panacea but it nudged the world in the right direction.	False
Well I think that both sides have you know their own results from their studies and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science Craft said.	Asked Do you believe in climate change?	The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.	In 2016 Craft reportedly donated 265400 toward Trumps election and 17000 to the Republican National Committee.	The Trump administration released the report ahead of schedule on the Friday after Thanksgiving a move many interpreted as an attempt to bury the findings.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others.	However Ocasio Cortez staffers have since removed farting from fact sheet.	The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals?	Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more.	True
Recall the false promises about corn and cellulosic ethanol The Wall Street Journal editorial board wrote of the study.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	However Congress is debating whether or not to extend electric car subsidies.	California for example requires automakers to cut greenhouse gas emissions in cars by producing lower emissions vehicles or buying credits from companies like Tesla that make electric vehicles.	Its better read as a warning that new technologies arent a climate change panacea.	False
Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreements goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	We are watching with bated breath the teamwrote.	Photo John SonntagNASA via AP In the six days before President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change an enormous crack in an Antarctic ice shelf grew 11 miles according to a report by British Antarctic research group Project MIDAS.	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities.	An aerial view ofthe Antarctic Peninsulas Larsen C ice shelf.	False
Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have.	The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life.	Fortunately the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets.	The findings come after the death of the last male northern white rhino.	False
So whats the point of attacking environmentalists?	In California for example humanscaused95 percent of all wildfires with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem.	Most wildfires are caused by humans mostly unintentionally.	The former Montana congressman blamed litigation from radical environmentalists who would rather see forests and communities burn than see a logger in the woods in a USA Todayop edpublished Wednesday.	The judge sided with environmental groups and ruled renders the Project inconsistent with the desired vegetative conditions set forth in the Payette Forest Plan from 2003.	False
But it's not always been like that.	It's thought to have resulted in thousands of deaths.	So why is South Asia so much more polluted?	And the ways to protect oneself are limited.	The fight against air pollution in three global cities Why is India worse off than China?	False
They're a matter of life or death.	At this year's State of the Union address Trump talked about ending the war on beautiful clean coal.	In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it.	A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives.	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said.	False
After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site state Representative Gerry Pollet who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest called their actions outrageous.	Its a crime.	This fee structure ignores human nature which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught.	They knew it was wrong to dump the liquids but they did it anyway.	Im convinced by looking at this that youre witnessing a criminal violation of several statues not just one.	False
Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished asking By the way did you know Im the guy who did all this?	Social media users were quick to criticize Bidens response with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didnt really work out so well.	Joe Biden has been roundly mocked on Twitter after making the unlikely claim to a young activist appealing for a presidential debate on climate change that he kicked off the whole global warming movement back in the late 1980s.	Think your friends would be interested?	A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group.	False
People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	'The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	I shouldn't be up here.I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean.	In her impassioned address yesterday she said 'This is all wrong.	'Yet you have come to us young people for hope.	False
We know we arent in the business of risking anyones safety.	Sometimes Mother Nature throws you a curveball!	As well as an ironic sign In other parts of the country where similar marches and rallies took place the weather was a little kinder to the liberal climate alarmist narrative.	Video showed thousands marching in the streets of Washington where former Vice President Al Gore Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Virgin Atlantic owner Richard Branson showed up to protest as well.	This weekends protests come one week after last weeks March for Science.	False
Things are better today than in March 2011.	Peter Robbins an FPL spokesman said Mayor Stoddard is wrong.	Repairs cost about 90 million.	He said he was more worried about the nuclear waste than the reactors.	Time will tell whether better proves good enough said Dave Lochbaum director of a watchdog group the nuclear safety project at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	False
Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said.	Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains.	Some have lost as much as 85 of their expanse over the past 50 years with Glacier national park site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades.	wikimedia commons Its now inevitable that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana.	The disappearance of glaciers in Montana is part of a broader loss that will see all glaciers defined as moving bodies of snow and ice larger than 25 acres largely vanish from the lower 48 states of America by the mid point of the century according to Dr Daniel Farge lead USGS scientist.	False
It's a dereliction of both her duty to this country and our duty to our planet.'	'It is what the public wants it makes economic sense and it is what the world needs in order to safeguard the lives of future generations.'	'Today China and Europe have demonstrated solidarity with future generations and responsibility for the planet' he said.	China and Europe pledged to unite to save 'Mother Earth' as others including the UK and Russia reaffirmed their commitment to the international accord.	Mr Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris agreement was met with dismay around the world yesterday.	False
This fire moved so fast I don't think anybody did anything wrong Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently.	Sometimes you do fight fire with fire.	The majority could be attributed to humans though only 8 were caused by arson.	And straying away from natural burning cycles has also contributed to the lethality of recent fires Prof Peterson says.	Damage caused by wildfires has cost 5.1bn in the last decade Verisk found.	True
Yet fears over rising gas prices proved more convincing to Evergreen State voters.	This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	The loss came as Coloradans voted down Proposition 112 a measure that would have put about 85 percent of non federal land in the Centennial State off limits to oil and gas drilling.	Scientists say such policies are necessary to make the kinds of emissions cuts required to avert the worst impacts of climate change.	The Western States Petroleum Association raised over 31 milliona record for Washington ballot initiativesfor its No campaign spending nearly 30 million of it by the start of this month.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Nye who is well known for hosting a childrens TV show in the 1990s scolded CNNs New Day Saturday panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicistWilliam Happer.	Nye for his part has been one of the most belligerent apostle for the environmental movement.	Comedian Bill Nye accused CNN of doing a disservice to its viewers for inviting a well respected physicist on Earth Day to argue about the legitimacy of man made global warming.	Its much much less factors of two or three less.	False
Why do I believe that?	Do I think man has some impact?	WASHINGTON Michigan GOP Rep. Tim Walberg isnt concerned about the effects of climate change if it exists because God will take care of it.	No.	Yeah of course.	False
People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions.	The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100.	It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels.	For China pollution can rise into the 700s which could be having a major impact on happiness.	False
We have no luxury to indulge selfish ignorant behaviors.	Demand to be treated like adults.	Spoiled children need discipline in order to live wholesome productive lives.	It is hard to imagine a more important priority.	Let us ask them.	False
He was asleep on the couch when a fissure opened up 2000 feet 610 meters away spewing out lava and gas.	All we could do was sit there and cry he said.	Lava flows from fissures on its flank have destroyed at least 36 homes and other buildings and caused the evacuation of some 2000 residents.	He tried to reach his house on Tuesday but he and his neighbors were blocked by a 20 foot tall 6 meter tall wall of lava.	Kilauea has been in a state of nearly constant eruption for 35 years.	False
But there is good news as far as climate change goes.	he said.	Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully.	It's bigger than the U.S. and Mexico combined.	They also had some surprises on the way.	False
This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	There are factors and factors and factors.	And those two things are kind of in conflict.	So when you go to Texas or you go to Iowa you're generally just negotiating with a landowner whether it's a farmer whomever says Beggar.	The formula here has worked residents in Wyoming enjoy among the highest per capita GDP in the nation.	False
The Organisation for Economic Co operation and Development OECD compared data on concentrations of pharmaceutical residue in water samples worldwide as well as prescribing trends and water purification regulations in various countries.	Many medicines are simply discarded in the United States alone an estimated one third of the four billion drugs prescribed each year ends up as waste.	Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate related disease.	When animals and humans ingest medicines up to 90 percent of active ingredients are excreted back into the environment.	In Britain alone ethinyloestradiol diclofenac ibuprofen propranolol and antibiotics are now present in the run off of 890 wastewater treatment plants at high enough levels to cause adverse environmental effects according to another study.	False
A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges.	Pruitts goals as EPA administrator have centered on crafting or destroying policy in order to establish a friendlier regime for the fossil fuel industry.	Inhofe was among Pruitts biggest fans although the barrage of scandals ultimately began to dim his enthusiasm.	As a New York Times story lays out Murray was the architect of a so called environmental regulations wish list which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA.	As the New York Times points out however there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss.	False
Rob Bishop the top Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee said on the House floor before the vote.	The 363 62 vote to pass theNatural Resources Management Act came two weeks after the Senate approved the bill 92 8.	But it also enjoyed larger buy in.	Related Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect The very basis of all of the bills that are in here is to put people above government Utah Rep.	Democratsgot behind the bill because it would expand environmental protections.	False
And so for us to be the exception on this issue is holding the world back.	We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world.	U.S.	When the Paris Agreement was being negotiated the U.S. delegation pushed for more transparency and accountability to make sure the countries that signed on would actually do what they promised.	The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil.	False
Once again the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country and once again its putting the health of American families and communities at risk said Michael Brune executive director of Sierra Club.	This sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority said Hal Quinn NMA president and chief executive.	Trump has called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation and a massive power grab.	But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land.	The Obama administration widened this definition to include the drinking water of about 117 million Americans.	False
Regardless of why you're doing it what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you.	We could tie this to climate change or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money.	Instead they both said the focus should be on resiliency.	I don't know if there's an operating definition of what resilience means he said.	Resilience came into our nomenclature in our last administration but that doesn't mean that it's a verboten word any longer said Brian Sullivan a HUD spokesman.	True
That 2017 study published in the journal Science was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer respectively.	Steyer who co founded Next Generation gave roughly 58.7 million to liberal SuperPACs according to CRP.	Andrew Light a distinguished senior fellow at the World Resources Institute and reviewer of the chapter highlighting the Bloomberg Steyer funded study did not respond to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment.	Its a top line finding of a major government climate report but its based on a study funded by groups affiliated with two major Democratic donors.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	False
What are we looking for?	Many survivors at Monday's forum and in fire zones where people are returning say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal.	Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all.	In Sonoma County the scene of the most destruction and deaths county officials will draft environmental standards to be followed by any homeowners who opt to handle the clean up themselves at their own expense officials said.	Officials pointed to the public health concerns ranging from safety of residents in the burned neighborhoods to concerns for hazardous waste entering waterways and the air.	True
The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities Easterling said.	The federally mandated study was supposed to come out in December but was released by the Trump administration on Friday at a time when many Americans are on a long holiday weekend distracted by family and shopping.	We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered but believed and acted upon.	What can be done The report was created to inform policy makers and makes no specific recommendations on how to remedy the problem.	Almost half that rise has been since 1993 a rate of rise greater than during any century in the past 2800 years.	False
The purpose of this rule was breathtaking.	The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years.	Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP industry lawsuit against it.	Remember what Hillary Clinton said?	This was a part of Obamas pen and phone way of ruling the country.	False
Still to be determined whether it was persuasive or consequential.	Leaders of the Roman Catholic Church broached the topic when Trump visited the Vatican.	On the other side President Trump.	And up for debate the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	Merkel called the conversation controversial.	False
Spewing.	Right?	You know we have a world right?	You talk about the carbon footprint fumes are spewing into the air.	Interior Department spokesman Nicholas Goodwin said in a statement that the government needed to make sure the project was safe and environmentally responsible.	False
The study has been published in the journal Nature.	All measures combined can result in keeping healthy both planet and people.	The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together.	So when it comes to climate change the authors looked at what they called a flexitarian diet.	We looked at improving agricultural yields in particular of more health sensitive crops like fruit vegetables and legumes said Dr Springmann.	False
I think that speaks for itself.	The official echoed Can we stay on topic please?	There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders former president Barack Obama and Trumps defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton who branded it a historic mistake.	I think its a little bit more nuanced than stay in or not.	one said.	False
Instead of focusing on the apprehensionand divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters its more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together tohelp one another.	In a hyper political environment pro climate change and anti climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters and the implementation ofstandardized response to these crises.	While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies its more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric whichonly serves to encourage people throughanxiety and panic.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season as well asthe most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria which was said to cripple Dominica with widespread devastation en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States its important to maintainlevelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speakingtruth amidstapprehension.	Man made warming did not cause Harvey and Irma Loris wrote.	False
No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	I mean you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you cant even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards?	And we all kinda see what is happening here if they cant do it now then why would we believe that they would be carbon free after they force all of us to live in backwards slums?	Greta Thunberg tried really hard to keep her zero emissions promise but it has collapsed like all hypocritical left wing plans because it was just too difficult.	From the Hill Greta Thunbergs plan for carbon free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up.	False
Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule this effort is all about helping industry.	Rick Scott a staunch Trump supporter he was removing the states coastal waters from consideration.	Donald Boesch a professor of marine science at the University of Maryland who served on the bipartisan commission that investigated the causes of the Deepwater Horizon blowout said easing the safety rules is both premature and ill considered.	In May the Trump administration took aim at the Well Control Rule a safety monitoring regulation meant to prevent the kind of incident that killed 11 workers and resulted in some 200 million gallons of crude oil leaking into the Gulf of Mexico.	The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism.	False
Employees wanting medical or religious exceptions can hash those out witha company policy team.	New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact even more than switching to a hybrid carWeWork co founder MiguelMcKelvey said in an email to staffers.	The companyestimates its no meat policy will save15507103 animals by 2023 according to Business Insider along with16.6 billion gallons of water and445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide theheat trapping gas that alters Earth's climate.	The global workplace startup told employees this week that the company will ban employees from expensing meals that contain red meat pork or poultryBloomberg reported.	WeWork confirmed the policy change to both news outlets.	False
They also ignore the question as to why theres not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction she added.	David Keith a solar geoengineering GE expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	Our work is to inform better choices and it would actually be very useful to know for sure it didnt work.	But scientists such as Keith and Mark Lawrence scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies IASS in Potsdam argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less almost impossible to achieve the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster.	That would break the slow moving agreement among many environmental groups that sound research in this field makes sense Keith said on the sidelines of the Climate Engineering Conference CEC in Berlin.	False
a greener planet and enhanced crop yields.	I can.	Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	Here courtesy of Kenneth Richard who has waded through them all are some examples of what they say.	And current emissions mitigation policies especially related to the advocacy for renewables are often costly ineffective and perhaps even harmful to the environment.	False
This report is striking for two reasons.	That view was echoed by Abigail Dillen president of environmental group Earthjustice.	And secondly it majors on the economic impact in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation.	Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action.	First it is not abstract.	False
We want to be there we want to be providing solutions for the world.	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come.	We know where were going.	Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his climate change minister Catherine McKenna are both disappointed over President Donald Trumps decision to break with the Paris climate accord.	Despite the lofty objectives when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers.	False
The E.P.A.	In this case the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires.	Many experts said that approach was not scientifically sound and that in the real world there are no safe levels of the fine particulate pollution associated with the burning of fossil fuels.	had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year.	Fine particulate matter the tiny deadly particles that can penetrate deep into the lungs and enter the bloodstream is linked to heart attacks strokes and respiratory disease.	False
What have we done?	Kiddo I want you to just take a look.	Ive never walked away from that.	And the fact of the matter is that what we talk about is what are we going to do about those corporations?	How can we trust that youre going to act on climate on the climate crisis if youre still attending fundraisers that fossil fuel executives are attending?	False
We are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party OBrien said in the Reuters article.	The key here is the dividend back to the people former Sen. Trent Lott R MS who supports the young group told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	Its not sustainable for Republicans through the leadership to say We just dont want to talk about this' Lott said.	The Thomson Reuters Foundation reported on the campaign which runs counter to the stance of the Republican Party and President Donald Trump that the issue is more about globalization than saving the planet Drawn from Republican groups on more than two dozen university campuses the Young Conservatives for Carbon Dividends called for laws to tax oil natural gas and coal producers of planet warming greenhouse gases.	We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit and we need climate policy that reflects that said Kiera OBrien 21 a senior at Harvard University who co founded the group.	False
The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues.	The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement a non binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long term benefits.RELATEDA Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change So called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	The pledge is a significant change in position for van Beurden who had previously opposed such proposals citing concerns about potential lawsuits.	False
Over and over again the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well being of everyday Americans said Eric Schneiderman New Yorks attorney general.	They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law.	Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court.	Many of these legal problems have stemmed from the sheer pace of the rollbacks required public comment periods have been set aside in some cases any rationale for repeal or delay has been missing in others.	They are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who dont want to follow the rules said Aaron Colangelo the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council.	False
We want to embrace better stewardship.	Theres peace time and theres global nuclear combat.	The facts of the matter is observable data climate change is more toward the peace time he added comparing the document to international relations.	Youve gotten a lot better.	We want to embrace reliability.	False
It's cents for a nation like Colombia.	They are essentially living corpses says Colombian scientist Rodrigo Bernal of Colombia's national tree.	Unfortunately there is a loophole to that status he adds.	This tree is beloved by Colombian people everyone knows it is our national tree But nobody knows we are about to lose it.	It's not a huge amount.	False
They're preaching fear.	My personal views are irrelevant in this context.	No wonder the environmental message has became the cause of choice for the elitists of Hollywood.	The source illegal immigrants.	And that's what they're preaching.	False
He is hurting them.	In an interview on MSNBC on Thursday former Secretary of State John Kerry said President Donald Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Accord puts America last is shameful and will hurt kids by worsening their asthma.	You have this disconnect.	Should more plants and food for people and animals really be demonized?	It is a shameful moment for the United States to have unilaterally walked away from an agreement which did not have one other country requiring us to do something Kerry told Andrea Mitchell.	False
If both options were to fail Beykpour suggested we dump this site and move on.	In 2018 the company was accused of illegally disposing of arsenic tainted wastewater from another of its California plants.	According to a 16 count indictment Crystal Geyser discharged the toxic waste into a pond that staff dubbed the arsenic pond and then worked with two waste disposal firms to illegally transport the arsenic to a plant without a license to treat it.	Facebook groups have sprung up to oppose the plant and the local tribal council voted unanimously against it.	In his email Beykpour had claimed the Chronicle was in bed with the opposition.	False
WRI leadership regularly interacts with senior Chinese government and Communist party officials and provides public support for Chinese environmental programs Bishop and Westerman wrote.While WRI criticizes policies of the U.S. government WRI is silent on Chinese human rights violations such as arrests of environmental protesters and the mass detention of ethnic minorities.	WRIs desire to maintain access to Chinese officials may influence its political activities in the United States Republican Reps.	On important issues for Chinese leadership WRIs position appears to closely reflect Chinas goals and objectives the two lawmakers added.	Bishop and Westerman said NRDC and WRI activities mirror those laid out in reports on Chinas vast influence machine which it uses to shape its global image including on environmental issues.	WRI opposed President Donald Trumps decision to leave the Paris accord in 2017 in a statement that also praised China for committing to the climate agreement.	False
But that has changed.	So that was the motivation for originally setting up the project.	That's an important distinction because it means it's insulated from changes in the ocean's temperature.	And many of those papers showed different results.	This assessment conducted by 84 scientists from 44 international organizations is known as the Ice Sheet Mass Balance Inter comparison Exercise IMBIE.	False
And it isnt as has been suggested because weve become so immune to data that numbers arent persuasive anymore.	Its time that we own our mistakes and get real about our shortcomings.	Its time we stop letting it.	The planet isnt going to wait for us to get this right.	Or we could let implicit bias and systemic racism undercut any chance we have at a sustainable future.	False
In the late 1990sa crusading attorneysued E.I.	du Pont de Nemours and Co. over a massive contamination in Parkersburg West Virginia that killed livestock and sickened and deformed many residents in the rural Appalachian community that surrounded the chemical companys plant.	There is enough data to take action.	Last May the EPA hosted anational leadership summiton PFAS but the agencys decision to bar reporters from attending sessions and one officials manhandling of an Associated Press reporter overshadowed the event.	Later that month the White House and EPA moved to suppress an Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry report that found PFAS pose health risks at 70 parts per trillion.	False
Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category.	According to the poll which has a 3.4 margin of error 67 of Democrats 54 of independents and 33 of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Coxs views on environmental issues will impact how they vote.	every single time weve covered its been a palpable ratings killer.	so the incentives are not great.	Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News.	False
There is nothing more powerful than our nations youth marching together demanding action be taken to protect our planet and their future Sen. Kamala Harris D CA wrote.	Its time our leaders listened.	She submitted the United Nations IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony writing I am submitting this report as my testimony because I dont want you to listen to me I want you to listen to the scientists.	And I want you to unite behind the science.	To the millions of young people and allies worldwide who are striking today to demand climate justice I stand with you.	False
To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN.	Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNN in an interview about Hurricane Irma on Thursday that the time to talk about climate change isn't now saying the question was insensitive.	Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm Duke responded I you know the data I don't know what it particularly indicates.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget said climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	False
A value added tax which is widely used around the world is consumption based.	The carbon tax would appear to clash with the priorities Trump has sought so far in his administration.	The White House on Tuesday denied that it is currently considering two controversial provisions to raise revenue as part of its broad tax overhaul.	The White House did not immediately respond to CNBC's request to comment.	Republicans have turned their attention to an overhaul of the U.S. tax system a key campaign goal after their first attempt to replace the Affordable Care Act failed.	False
In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said.	It is also true however that for the peoples concerned a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival.	The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment.	Pope Francis has made the care of the environment a central theme of his six year pontificate returning again and again to issues of ecological responsibility the dangers of carbon emissions and the scourge of climate change.	In that text the pontiff said that the earth is beginning to look more and more like an immense pile of filth as once beautiful landscapes are now covered with rubbish.	False
Given its clear violation of the Clean Air Act I intend to sue the EPA over this Dirty Power rule and look forward to collaborating with other states and cities in taking action to protect all Americans from the increasingly disastrous impacts of climate change James said in a statement.	At a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing last week about the direction of the EPA former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy who finalized the Clean Power Plan under Obama said she believes the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule as well as other proposed rules the agency has made since Trump took office undermines the science and the law in how they're trying to roll back those rules.	We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday.	They are trying to inflate the cost and lower the benefits in order to justify rules that simply don't make sense under the law.	Unlike the CPP the ACE rule adheres to the four corners of the Clean Air Act.	False
Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor at Large at Breitbart News.	The mayor said he had challenged the citys Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer Instead of saying all the reasons why not get to a reason as to why.	It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	He made the decision despite the fact that top staffers have argued in recent months that the gas plants are critical to keeping the lights on in the city theTimes noted.	He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship.	False
The area is remote and foreboding the complaint said.	Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	Some of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities stated the complaint.	The lawsuit also argued that Trumps reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful.	Its drilling contractor pleaded guilty to eight felony offenses relating to environmental pollution and safety and agreed to pay 12.2 million in fines.	False
On Wednesday conservatives leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans Stalinism or genocide.	Weve now seen the whites of its eyes.	For years positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other.	We have this idea that left ideas are moving and shaking inside the political atmosphere right now.	That same week Rep. Matt Gaetz R Fla. a loyal Trump ally drafted a nonbinding resolution staking out a Green Real Deal that would acknowledge the threat climate change poses to human health and safety in communities across the United States.	False
We dont have a social mission other than transparency and fact checking.	Were not going to win the internet by going out and saying everybody is doing it wrong its just a pricing story.	He admitted in a media environment that rewards sensationalism and factual manipulation the approach may seem a bit bland.	Comparing what people say to data then stepping out of the room is sort of the best thing journalists can do Roston said.	You dont go through the quarterly quarterly results from Coke Levis or anyone else and not come away thinking that they dont have concerns over limited resources like water.	False
The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it.	Clean water has a value.	A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners.	Their policies are insufficient in many ways.	Regarding the price of water.	False
Its a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU.	Poorer countries are less likely to act when they think theyre unfairly bearing the burden of a problem kickstarted by Western industrial development.	Its a fundamental threat to progress against climate change and thus the entirety of the human race.	But the stakes are even bigger than they appear at first glance Its not just the survival of Western democracy thats at stake but the planet itself.	Its especially important that wealthy countries take the lead on the issue.	False
Rose Strauss apparently isnt showing favoritism in the race for Pennsylvania governor at least when it comes to asking candidates about climate change.	He has shown support for the young and naive voters Strauss told the paper adding that while Wolf has supported us verbally the governor hasnt committed to action on things we care about like climate change.	Wolfs campaign declined to say if hell meet with Strauss and other activists but offered the following statement to the Daily Record Governor Wolf is committed to protecting and preserving the environment.	You know humans have warm bodies.	This bipartisan agreement modernizes and strengthens environmental protections at oil and gas sites in Pennsylvania.	True
Can't kids just learn without an anti scientific social agenda?	There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids but that wasn't the worst.	That dubious honor goes to the episode that teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.	This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media as they use climate change as the universal bad guy so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea.	Episode 12 Monster Power teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.Albert one of the students has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is coming for us next for what we've done to this planet!	False
Shes right.	An activist from the Sunrise Movement a liberal environmental group asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking.	He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying Thats the environmental injustice of racism that were dealing with.	Mr. Castro won some of his strongest applause when he leaned into his rsum as the nations housing chief and connected his work with the need to protect low income communities from environmental damages.	Still Mr. Castro said its actually what comes next that is most important saying he would impose a fee on carbon pollution enact an executive order prohibiting fossil fuel exploration and development on public lands and spend 10 trillion over 10 years to reach net zero emissions by 2045.	False
Pera Markovic a lawyer with Cekor an environmental group is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area.	You cannot be a world leader in curbing air pollution and at the same time the world's biggest financier of overseas coal power plants the group's energy coordinator Ioana Ciuta told the BBC.	EPS says it is spending hundreds of millions of euros on environmental protection but its track record clearly does not inspire trust.	That's likely to be the same in many other countries too whatever climate scientists say is needed.	For how long?	False
These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	FERCs other Democratic commissioner Richard Glick opposed the terminalarguinghis colleagues were deliberately ignoring the consequences that its actions have for climate change.	LaFleur for example called on FERC to factor in estimates like the controversial social cost of carbon for a cost benefit analysis.	Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy.	False
The declarations signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day.	Climate science should be less political while climate policies should be more scientific the declaration stated.	Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation.	Late last month a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a European Climate Declaration to the Secretary General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change.	Therefore there is no cause for panic and alarm they noted.	True
That's just common sense.	Are we part of the reason?	Where have you been?	I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here.	Common sense tells you bring the cleaner burning fuels bring the things that bring the emissions down.	False
But her parents didnt.	A few job promises and they get to pollute as much as they want.	Then you know what we get?	Neither did at least 10 other people who lived on her block.	We are being robbed and pillaged by industry Landrum said her voice rising to a preachers righteous crescendo.	False
We have to think about the whole world.	You know what they tell me?	Because weve got to be working on all fronts.	And so what do they do?	So heres what really scares me.	False
This is about social disruption Shepard said.	This is our issue Beverly said.	Were hit first and hit worst.	Theres no question that this is a topic area that black politicians including the CBC Congressional Black Caucus have not focused on as much Thomas A. LaVeist dean of Tulane Universitys School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine said in an interview.	The article also quoted Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D NY about her Green New Deal resolution that puts social justice even above climate change.	False
That is hypocrisy.	No more gaslighting.	Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me February 21 2019 You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro science.	President Donald Trumps pick to head the committee William Happer once compared the demonization of CO2 to how Jews were characterized in Nazi Germany.	Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy.	False
But we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good.	It is good economics.	The views are their own.	Policies work best when they are narrowly tailored to the behavior that they seek to alter.	Thus if we want markets to produce more clean innovation we should reward innovators rather than penalize polluters in the hopes that doing so will indirectly induce them to produce innovation.	False
They reflect profound failure to honour collective global commitment to protect the most vulnerable.	More than half of these are believed to be children.	But we also refuse to die.	With our very existence at stake COP 25 must demonstrate unprecedented ambition to avert ecocide.	In the midst of a climate emergency retreat and inaction are tantamount to sanctioning ecocide.	False
Hunters anglers and target shooters are the best conservationists who contribute so much through the Pittman Robertson and Dingell Johnson Acts said Richard Childress NRA vice president.	On the conservation side however I think it's a much less rosy picture Fosburgh said.	They can become political footballs in our eyes.	Last year they contributed 1.2 billion toward conservation and protecting our natural resources.	The declaration also generated the support of the National Rifle Association.	True
Were bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death 17 year old organizer Maddie Graham said.	We need systemic change.	Im standing with the young activists on todaystay strong in this fight!	Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate crisis on the biggest shopping day of the year disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago Illinois and holding a Black Friday Funeral For Future in the nations capital Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts.	Think about that three things 70 percent reduction she added.	False
I cant believe they are putting profits over the planet and profits over people.	After the protesters were led away by security guards Griffiths said In the US our policy is not to keep it in the ground but to use it as cleanly and efficiently as possible.	A Trump administration presentation extolling the virtues of fossil fuels at the UN climate talks in Poland has been met with guffaws of laughter and chants of Shame on you.	They talk about the life cycle of coal I talk about it as a death march.	There is no such thing as clean coal.	False
Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here.	Its a breath of fresh air to see science instead of politics inserted into forest and fire management saidKirin Kennedy associatelegislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club in a statement.	In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values.	The report comes at the same time the president has sent out misleading tweets aboutthe causes and solutions of Californias wildfires and as Donald Trumps Interior head Ryan Zinke has blamed fires on environmentalists denied climate change science and called for more logging.	Aswildfirescontinue torageacross the Westduring a brutally hotsummer on Thursday the US Forest Service released itsnewforest fire management strategy thatfocuses on science and thechanging climate.	False
But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red versus blue divide.	'Not the cause of it but the things that we observe.'	'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced' Pruitt said.	When Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked about a link Monday she touted the country's environmental record and moved on.	'I'm not sure specifically on the Paris climate deal but as he said at the time the goal is to always do the very best when taking care of the environment and taking proper steps' Huckabee Sanders replied.	False
In West Virginia coal is popular and politicians who support coal get elected.	Our politicians are beholden to coal.	Vivian Stockman of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition was protesting outside Trumps rally.	Our state is beholden to coal.	An analysis done by his own Environmental Protection Agency EPA concludes that the rollback of Obama era pollution controls will lead to many more people dying and suffering health problems that they otherwise would not have.	False
South Carolina Gov.	They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly before the suit is filed.	Voters said they had been turned off by what they saw as Arrington's flip flop on the issue and they turned instead to Cunningham's consistency.	The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing Mace said.	State Rep. Nancy Mace a Republican representing parts of the greater Charleston area supports the lawsuit which she called South Carolina's best option to challenge federal government overreach.	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi.	The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	False
I understand the value of aspirational goals Bledsoesaid.	My personal view is that undermines the credibility of the effort.	Speaking at an eventcommemoratingMartin Luther King Day that monthOcasio Cortez asserted thatclimate change constituted our World War II and added Millennials and people you know Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and were like The world is gonna end in 12 years if we dont address climate change and your biggest issue is how are we gonna pay for it?'	In January White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders derided Ocasio Cortez'srecent claim that theworld will end in 12 yearsdue to climate change andsuggested the Trump administration has little need for the progressive firebrand'sthoughts in general.	And Paul Bledsoe a strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute said progressives were overcompensating.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The administration and its officials regularly disregard the scientific consensus about the harms of climate change in order to justify rolling back regulations and trashing initiatives designed to make the world cleaner and safer.	It is a threat to America and to all of humanity.	And Wheeler's approach ignoring science in favor of industry and pollution is a perfect reflection of Trump's shameful approach to climate issues.	But Trump and his fellow Republicans refuse to acknowledge reality and they certainly can't be bothered to read scientific reports about it.	False
Bernhardt stressed as he has before that he takes ethics extremely seriously is working to improve the agencys ethics program and is confident that he has complied with all rules and will be cleared at the end of the investigation.	But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials.	If you have a view on what you want to happen well carry it out when you execute it.	That is my position.	Interiors internal watchdog recently opened two ethics probes the first of them just four days into Bernhardts tenure intomultiple high ranking interior officials including the secretary.	False
That's a false choice and it's one that you've talked about Mr. President.	You know for too long there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change.	Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers the letter added.	Those standards were designed to make cars more fuel efficient and reduce pollution.	When President George W. Bush challenged California's greenhouse gas emissions and mileage setting ability California fought it in the courts.	True
It's in their drinking water and it's in their soil.	That includes financial help to make sure that happens.	Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results.	Instead of digging up two feet of contaminated soil for disposal digging up eight feet.	One week ago the local chapter of the NAACP said it invited Pruitt to a roundtable discussion on environmental justice which happened Wednesday morning.	False
To not say anything about it is just ignorance and its irresponsible.	It was something that was going to happen when peoples grandchildren were alive.	And that has changed Graumlich said.	Lisa Graumlich the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal.	Even the Democratic rebuttal to Trumps speech by the ex Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams only mentioned climate change once in a list of priorities the US could pursue.	False
It is hypocritical said Andrew Rosenberg director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	Instead there is an administration wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether.	You can't make something not real if you just don't talk about it.	Washington CNN President Donald Trump spent an hour Thursday talking about his commitment to economic growth and national stability as he announced the decision to back out of the Paris Climate Accord.	Former deputy EPA administrator under President Barack Obama Bob Perciasepe said the Trump administration's avoidance of the term just makes them seem out of touch with reality.	False
Last yearSens.	There is near universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide likely through a tax is key to scaling back emissions in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products societal costs.	But for some conservative climate hawks the reality of the IPCC report hit home.	Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administrations federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted Flint went quiet for a while.	Failing to do so would be cataclysmic.	False
Diversity takes millions of years to evolve but can be damaged in the blink of an eye.	Co author Sammy de Grave head of research at the Oxford University Museum added The study was published in the journal Communications Biology.	Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda.	Professor of Evolutionary Paleobiology Matthew Wills at the Milner Centre for Evolution at the University of Bath said We are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of a magnitude unparalleled since the asteroid impact that wiped out the dinosaurs.	Humans are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of species not seen since the demise of the dinosaurs British scientists warned.	False
The White House has sought to stave off any discord by arguing that the order is not meant to take power away from the states but to ensure that state actions follow the intent of the Clean Water Act.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Trump's developing an addiction to executive orders that rubberstamp these climate killing projects said Brett Hartl government affairs director at the center.	Environmental groups described Trump's order as an effort to short circuit a state's ability to review complicated projects putting at risk a state's ability to protect drinking water supplies and wildlife.	The groups said in an April 5 letter that individual states shouldn't be able to use provisions of the Clear Air Act to dictate national policy thereby harming other states and the national interest and damaging cooperative federalism.	False
It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory.	Trump a proud climate change skeptic attributes the fires to lousy management.	As for the water it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents.	It's not a good week for the Delta smelt.	Speaking at a White House address on Tuesday Trumpwas shocked that Californians weren't using the water contained by their dams to put out the fires and irrigate their fields.	False
When the threat arose yesterday people were still doing their activities on the beach and did not immediately run and they became victims he told a news briefing.	A 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque among the buildings damaged.	Indonesia's meteorological agency has been criticised for its response but officials said the waves struck while the warning was in place.	False
The decision stems from an environmental lawsuit.	WildEarth Guardians Physicians for Social Responsibility and the Western Environmental Law Center sued the BLM in 2016 for failing to calculate and limit the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from future oil and gas projects.	The decision is the first significant check on the climate impact of the Trump administrations energy first agenda that has opened up vast swaths of public land for mining and drilling.	Every acre of our public land sold to the oil and gas industry is another blow to the climate making this ruling a powerful reality check on the Trump administration and a potent tool for reining in climate pollution.	Kathleen Sgamma its president told the Washington Post This judge has ignored decades of legal precedent in this ruling.	False
The question is what are we going to do about it and at what cost?	Thanks for this hearing.	There are a number of factors that contribute to that including human activity.	Christina DeConcini director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute said the US needs a fact based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure homes and businesses.	Sea level rise and coastal flooding driven by climate change pose real significant risks to our residents and should not be politicized he said.	False
Theres rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office.	Zinke is one the most ethically challenged members of the Cabinet and maybe one of the most ethically challenged secretaries of the Interior weve had in living memory Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA who could chair the House Oversight Government Operations Subcommittee if Democrats win in November told Politico this week.	However environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement.	This means conservation preserving culture and facilitating recreation.	We should be in the business of being a partner.	False
If you think of Bernie youd think hed be talking about inequality or civil rights.	Activists freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of Californias deadliest wildfire seem primed for action and the partys progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue thats remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade.	Rising temperatures ranked 15th of 28 issues voters ranked in the questionnaire.	Theres a whole host of progressive issues yet this is the one hes leading with.	Seventy one percent of major televised debates in the 2018 midterm elections ignored the issue completely.	False
They knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater pollute drinking supplies render drinking water unusuable and unsafe and threaten the public health and welfare stated the complaint which claims an underground storage tank likely held the chemical.	At contention is whether the cancer causing chemical hexavalent chromium or chromium 6 came from the base which was designated a federal Superfund site in 1987 for 326 contaminated sites identified for cleanup.	Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984 McClellan had burn and burial pits trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals.	Sacramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply the water districts lawsuit filed in federal court in Sacramento says as part of its claim seeking 1.1 billion in damages.	Chrome 6 is a highly toxic compound and it shouldnt be in the water Victor Sher a San Francisco environmental attorney representing the plaintiffs said Tuesday.	False
Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the worlds largest carbon emitter China is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal fired power plant online every 10 days.	We even turn a blind eye to the fact that China lied about its carbon emissions when it first came to the table with its pledge last year.	They rely for so much and we would be giving them so little.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In his statement Monday however Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally.	GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS' Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions Sen. Jim Inhofe R Okla. said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016.	False
And the question I have is what if youre wrong?	Whether or not thats actually true remains to be seen.	Featured image is a screenshot from the video.	Watch the interview below via YouTube.	He then quickly moved on to accusing President Obama of reimagining authority with his clean power plan and praised Trumps recent executive order undoing environmental regulations that Obama put in place.	False
L1N1KU0UP	In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re engage in the global Paris climate agreement.	Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee voted in favor as did all committee Democrats except for West Virginias Joe Manchin.	Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon the amendments author said on Twitter on Thursday Despite dangerous decision unwillingness to act we can will fight back to combat The amendment passed 16 14.	WASHINGTON Reuters The U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee passed a spending bill on Thursday evening that includes 10 million to help fund the United Nations climate change body that oversees the Paris Climate Agreement despite President Donald Trumps decision to stop funding it.	False
I'm just not seeing it.	Arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be of any comfort to you Gore said.	But Gore's and Ivanka's influence clearly was not enough.	...	We have the ability to prevent even worse sea level rise and and even worse catastrophes that are also caused by the climate crisis Gore said.	False
Lawyers for Our Children's Trust have argued that government policies have deprived the children of their constitutional rights to life liberty and propertyto dignity to personal security to a stable climate system capable of sustaining human lives and liberties.	Whether those claims should be handled in court presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion the court said then.	WASHINGTON The Supreme Court refused the Trump administration's request Friday to block21 young people from putting a warming planet on trial in Eugene Ore. Theaction keeps alive at least for nowanunusual lawsuit begun in 2015 to force a change in federal environmental policyby declaring a climate systemcapable of sustaining human life a civil right.The lawsuit was broughton behalf of children now ages 11 22as well as future generations.	Legal whiz kid or partisan hack?	More Who is the real Brett Kavanaugh?	False
The transition to accessible and clean energy is a duty that we owe toward millions of our brothers and sisters around the world poor countries and generations yet to come the pope said.	The pope said meeting the energy needs of everyone on the planet must be done in ways that avoid creating environmental imbalances resulting in deterioration and pollution that is gravely harmful to our human family both now and in the future.	Civilization requires energy but energy must not destroy civilization he implored.	Frances also recalled his own appeal in the Laudato Si encyclical for an energy policy aimed at averting disastrous climate changes that could compromise the well being and future of the human family and our common home.	Francis said that modern society with its massive movement of information persons and things requires an immense supply of energy.	False
The entire report can be viewed at	The studies clash with policy under President Donald Trump who has been rolling back Obama era environmental and climate protections to maximize production of domestic fossil fuels including crude oil already the highest in the world above Saudi Arabia and Russia.	The report the Fourth National Climate Assessment Volume II supplements a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming and which warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet.	The Congressionally mandated report written with the help of more than a dozen U.S. government agencies and departments outlined the projected impacts of global warming in every corner of American society in a dire warning at odds with the Trump administrations pro fossil fuels agenda.	It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor broadly undermine human health damage infrastructure limit the availability of water alter coastlines and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others.	The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals?	Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more.	Certainly environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of peoples diets in the name of the climate but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health.	False
You're just a garden variety hypocrite like the others.	You would bring about mass death.	House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday saying it goes beyond what our charge is.	Living in the world as it is isnt an argument against working towards a better future.	An early overview of the plan since removed from Ocasio Cortez website promised economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision making and even vowed to eliminate farting cows.	False
And I think that we're very far from doing that.	Neither alone is going to get it done.	I talk to our kids and young people all the time and they are more environmentally sensitive they're more pro alternative energy they get the natural gas thing instead of coal.	And Rooney said the intransigence most of his fellow Republicans including President Trumpdisplay on the issue is harmful to the GOP brand and could come back to haunt them in 2020.	That is rapidly changing how Americans think about it David Doniger with the Natural Resources Defense Council wrote in a recent blog.	False
ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval.	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	It recommends that the world cut emissions to a net zero by the year 2050 to hold back global heating.	According to the ETC website the groups goal is to accelerate change towards low carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius.	The group is made up of energy company executives activists investment bankers Al Gore and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of funds the Daily Caller reports.	False
When capitalism stumbles badly producing degraded lands and gaping inequalities socialistic solutions rise in popularity because their incentives are not tied to profits.	The socialist sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding.	He united a biological and social vision for forestry one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests.	Marshalls closing line argues for that perspective The time has come when we must discard the unsocial view that our woods are the lumbermens and substitute the broader ideal that every acre of woodland in the country is rightly a part of the peoples forests.	TheGreen New Dealand its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change.	False
Its not just the future of the planet thats at stake here.	For the White House bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters.	Health isnt a big part of the conversation about Trump administration assault on climate change mitigation policies but it needs to be.	The public health community should be there too.	But whats largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact peoples health.	False
In June three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800000 people.	In July the Federal Reserve fined the firm 246 million for its unsafe and unsound practices in foreign currency trading division failing to crack down on employees who violated rules on sharing information with competitors.	In 2015 the company was ordered to pay 8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan Cuba and Iran.	For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing an aggressive climate policy makes business sense.	The rules also apply to tar sands considered one of the dirtiest sources of oil.	False
While calling Wheeler certainly qualified for this position Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as PruittWheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change.	As you can see we're continuing the president's agenda post haste.	It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote.	While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and for the first time begin regulating a set ofharmful chemicalsfound in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans.	False
Sandwiched between much of our entertainment are messages that perpetuate liberal themes The military is bloodthirsty radical Muslims must be handled with kid gloves trial lawyers and climate change activists are crusading heroes and above all corporations are evil.	When they are not being greedy or trying to dominate the world they are responsible for polluting the planet.	No one doubts that there was real liability in the case but Dark Waters is a conspiracy horror movie that ignores facts to shake up its audience.	But popular culture whether it be books TV film music or video games remain dominated by the Left.	Narratives like the ones above dont get turned into stories by accident.	False
The decision was praised by industry officials who had called on Pruitt to revisit the rules but environmental groups said he was caving to special interests in the coal industry.	The weakening of automobile standards which is a win for car manufacturers and a blow to environmentalists also sets up a fight between the Trump administration and the state of California which says it plans to stick with the stricter rules.	Pushing to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord Pruitt pushed the White House to leave the Paris climate deal stood beside the President in the Rose Garden when he announced the decision and after the President spoke offered his own remarks.	The move was condemned by global leaders and was seen by many as a setback to efforts to address global warming.	Critics said the rule was overly broad in classifying waterways that are subject to federal rules while supporters see it as a necessary protection for example preventing fertilizer runoff from tainting streams and drinking water.	False
It is the most destructive threat to America and mankind.	The controversy reemerged after the first round of Democratic debates last week.	Climate received 15 minutes of discussion over two nights but the largely superficial discussion of the issue only seemed to strengthen the activists case as key policy proposals such as the Green New Deal and 100 percent renewable energy mandates were virtually ignored.	The result was a pair of resolutions that could come up for a vote at the partys August meeting.	Heres what each of the candidates have said Biden addressed a Greenpeace activist at a campaign rally in Ottumwa Iowa on June 11 Thats what we should be doing he said.	False
The president's statement focused on the beauty of nature and the importance of preserving it for future generations.	Jobs matter!'	In a flurry of other tweets he criticized President Obama for prioritizing the environment over other issues such as 'ISIS and Ebola.'	He said in the second paragraph 'economic growth enhances environmental protection.'	On Earth Day thousands of scientists students and research advocatesmarched around the world in protest of Trump's research budget cuts.	False
for failing to properly control methane pollution a greenhouse gas.	In 2016 Mr. Schneiderman and the Securities and Exchange Commission announced a 154 million settlement with Barclays and Credit Suisse to resolve allegations that the banks had permitted traders to misuse their dark pool platforms.	Mr. Schneidermans big accomplishment in going after Wall Street were the billions of dollars in penalties that he helped secure from big banks that had sold flawed mortgage backed bonds during the run up to the financial crisis.	But Ms. Polisi added that there had been considerable substance to a number of Mr. Schneidermans investigations as well as some major successes.	He ensured that some of that money went to help communities across the state that were overrun by abandoned houses and foreclosures often referred to as zombie homes.	False
I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally.	Substantively I think you have your thumb wrist forearm and elbow on the scale Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D RI told Wheeler referring to Wheelers past work as a coal lobbyist.	One thing thats important on the regulatory side is that we dont try to tip the scale one way or the other for example on energy sources he said.	When Sen. Jeff Merkley D OR asked Wheeler how he rated climate change in importance on a scale of 1 to 10 Wheeler said it was 8 or 9.	I do consider myself a conservationist he said.	False
Pitting important environmental goals against working families who rely on affordable American energy is a false choice the organization said.	Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. upped the ante in his progressive agenda on Thursday when he signaled support forcriminal charges against executives at oil companies.	Fossil fuel executives should be criminally prosecuted for the destruction they have knowingly caused Sanders tweeted.	That turned into a federal lawsuit alleging the oil giant defrauded its shareholders with its messaging on climate change.Schneiderman resigned in 2018 amid allegations of physical abuse but legal battles continued to swirl around the company.	The cost of inaction is unacceptable Sanders' website claimed.	False
Or so it has been for thousands of years.	A Green Island moss bank with icebergs.Credit Matt Amesbury Antarctica is a cold white continent at the bottom of the world.	another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter who led the research project.	Dr. Matt Amesbury also of the University of Exeter said there were two main findings to take from their new study scale and temperature sensitivity Before now studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites weve been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula.	surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.	False
One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	Recent scientific studies have found that huge reductions in meat eating are essential in order to cut greenhouse gas emissions and avoid dangerous climate change.	The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production.	The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station 248 miles 399 km away from any natural resources.	We are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime anywhere in any condition said Didier Toubia co founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms.	False
'I don't agree with that at all.	'I think the president is right.'	I happen to disagree strongly with him on this particular issue.'	'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket and you make them put it back in they're not going to be happy.	Ross said much of the predicted backlash from other countries that drive global warming concerns would be rooted in economics not science.	False
Theyre trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used.	Youre right there could very well be a new generation coming up saying thats the only environmental issue and its not he said.	He also said that California is playing politics in its fight with the EPA to preserve its more stringent vehicle emission standards as the national standard.	I think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and one that will be held up in court he said.	He said while he encouraged EPA scientists to carry out and publish research he stressed the recent paper did not reflect EPA policy.	False
I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories.	In the Epic of Gilgamesh waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened too Gillis wrote In Indias version Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat carrying seeds.	In the Bible God orders Noah to carry two of every living creature on his ark.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	I dont think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale Terence Hughes a retired glaciologist told Gillis.	False
However there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers.	Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes?	The interaction between the hot dry air of the Sahara Desert and the cooler more humid air from the Gulf of Guinea below creates high altitude winds known as the African Easterly Jet.	Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Andrew began life as tropical waves off the coast of west Africa.	Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?	False
What does this all mean for humanity?	Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power medical care to stay healthy enough income to feed their kids education for the children so they can fulfill their potential.	Instead says O'Neill generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet.	The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage in other words using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it.	They range from boosting life expectancy above age 65 to ensuring that at least 95 percent of its adult population has graduated from high school has access to sanitation and earns more than the extreme poverty line of 1.90 a day.	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi.	The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	False
Nothing.	But most of the responsibility lies with industry not individuals she said adding this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants us to talk about.	Look whats happening now in the Amazon whats going on?	Some of it is with lightbulbs some of it is on straws some of it dang is on cheeseburgers.	With many questions focused on what candidates would ask Americans to sacrifice Elizabeth Warren pushed back on the framing.	False
They've never seen a category like this come in because it came in really at a five he said.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget told CNN that climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese.	Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth.	Top Trump administration officials have repeatedly dodged questions about how climate change affected the damage done by hurricanes Harvey and Irma saying the issue should be discussed at a later date.	False
I want clean water I want a wealthy country.	And that's what we're doing.	We've become much richer country and that's a good thing not a bad thing because that great wealth allows us to take care of people' Trump said.	That never materialized.	'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water thank you very much everybody I appreciate it thank you' he concluded.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	We stand for spreading the word about the science we do especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people.	Who loses out?	Anti science censorship has become a hallmark of the Trump administration.	The intent is to try to suppress a message in this case the increasing danger of human caused climate change said Michael Mann a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University.	False
It is after all the measure of ones moral fitness to value some things say forgiveness over others vengeance.	We all hold a hierarchy of values.	For most people of good conscience the value of a human beings life supersedes that of our dog or a backyard plant.	Each individual has values good and bad and they often remain in tension with one another.	That statement not only describes Judass moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern holy as it may be poverty reduction environmental protection or any other earthly mission that does not give a preferential deference to God His creation and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities.	False
It informs decision makers.	Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts.	This type of political interference or scientific censorship whatever you want to call it is ill advised and does a real disservice to the American peopleand public health.	So there is no reason for it to have to be this way.	We can debate the issues we can have different viewpointsbut we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ...	False
Environmentalists spent years lobbying and campaigning to get such policies in place.	The League of Conservation Voters LCV led eight other groups in a legal challengeof Trumps recent executive order to reopen large swaths of Arctic seas to offshore drilling.LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election.	Theyare living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office namely to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Earthjustice sued to stop the Environmental Protection Agencys EPA decision to indefinitely stay the implementation of wastewater discharge rules for coal plants.	False
To Janet this is a moral issue.	March 14 2017 Gallup poll.	Lets take a closer look at this.	These were matters that we have historically agreed on if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildrens future.	Before I address that question I just stumbled upon an article in the August 1 Washington Post.	False
Its pure unadulterated selfishness.	Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives.	Get real.	And there you have it.	This is why deniers exist.	False
Its a challenging issue.	Im taking a very pragmatic look at it in scoping this Newsom told The Los Angeles Times recently.	But at what cost is this being done especially when nobody else is doing anything.	One cannot just immediately abut against a century of practice and policy Newsom said.	Its bloody combat.	False
But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes the BBC reports.	The Bolsonaro regime has reversed previous governments efforts to enforce environmental regulations and protect what is the largest rainforest in the world.	The right wing populist Bolsonaro who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazonhome to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so peoplecame to power in January.	The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right wing President Jair Bolsonaros environmental policies that dont give much thought to the environment at all.	Last monththe far right president accused Inpes director of lying about the scale of deforestationin the Amazon and trying to undermine the government.	False
People across the world must rise to save the planet.	If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up I would say today in Madrid governments fucked up said Mohamed Adow Director of Power Shift Africa.	I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand versus what the climate negotiations are delivering Alden Meyer strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists told AFP.	Alexandria Villasenor a 14 year old climate activist said she was disappointed in the lack of action at COP 25.	It isn't reflective of the kids who are demonstrating on the streets the world over communities being washed away by rising sea levels he said late Saturday.	False
Okay?	They only end up making an ass out of u and mption'.	Because as the great Samuel L. Jackson once uttered on film Never make assumptions.	Okay.	Okay.	False
