This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger.	Progressive political elites have decided that in order to save the environment ordinary citizens must submit to radical lifestyle changes while those same elites fly around the world on private jets and enrich themselves from trade with China the worlds biggest polluter.	Absent from Bernies argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what itll do to the economy and public services two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about.	Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left.	Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone!	True
What do they want?	The entire spectacle has been highly disruptive for businesses and law enforcement alone.	We are now facing an existential crisis the climate crisis and ecological crisis which have never been treated as crises before they have been ignored for decades said Greta Thunberg a Swedish activist addressing London demonstrators.	THIS IS AN EMERGENCY warns the website of the Extinction Rebellion a group of climate change activists whose civil disobedience has included gluing themselves to a train and to Jeremy Corbyns fence nailing a pink boat to the ground in Oxford Circus pouring fake blood outside Downing Street holding a die in at Londons Natural History Museum and camping beneath the citys Marble Arch.	Perhaps this frustration explains why Adam Boulton a presenter on Sky News told an Extinction Rebellion organizer Robin Boardman on live TV that the protesters come across as incompetent middle class self indulgent people trying to tell us how to live our lives.	True
The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque amongst the buildings damaged.	The 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	There is a ship washed ashore she added.	Last month a series of earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok killing hundreds of people the biggest on 5 August killed more than 460.	True
The crisis touches every aspect of our lives.	So must the solution.	The world must wake up.	Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	Citizens generally are more concerned about getting a good education obtaining better healthcare and achieving political freedoms than they are tackling climate change according to a 2015 survey from the United Nations.	True
Were addressing the issue.	The Trump administration continues to dismiss and downplay the crisis.	At Interior Zinke overturned an Obama era moratorium on new coal leases on federal land scrapped a hydraulic fracturing rule meant to better protect public health and curtailed a rule limiting the amount of methane that can be released from oil and gas operations on federal and Native American lands.	Administration officials havetouted these declines to explain their push to boost fossil fuels as well as to defend the presidentsdecision last year to withdraw the U.S. from the historic Paris accord on combating climate change.	Were moving forward.	False
introduced a formal resolution on it which stalled in the Senate but drewsupport from a number of 2020 hopefuls.	In a nod to the social justice part of the plan he says that the deal is an opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social racial and economic justice including redressing the exclusion of black brown Native Americanand other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal.	As president Bernie Sanders will launch the decade of the Green New Deal a ten year nationwide mobilization centered around justice and equity during which climate change will be factored into virtually every area of policy from immigration to trade to foreign policy and beyond his campaign said in a press release.	The plan also promises support for the climate justice movement to take on the fossil fuel industry and other polluters and lead the globe in solving the climate crisis.	He also promises justice for frontline communities via a 40 billion Climate Justice Resiliency Fund as well as an extra 200 billion to the Green Climate Fund.	True
It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate.	Jay Inslee of Washington who made climate change the central focus of his campaign announced he was dropping out of the 2020 race.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	True
Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences came together and took courageous action.	Tonight California stood tall and once again boldly confronted the existential threat of our time said Jerry Brown Californias governor.	Concessions to get some Republican support such as the limiting of separate regulations on refineries risked alienating more liberal Democrats.	Brown has positioned himself as a countervailing force to Trump visiting China to talk to its leaders about climate change and promising to build and launch weather monitoring satellites should federal budget cuts endanger programs handled by Nasa and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOOA.	Defendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earths climate and sea levels the complaint states.	False
So the question of whether the US should actually pull out of the agreement has reportedly been the subject of intense debate within the Trump administration.	The Associated Presss Jill Colvin and Julie Pace though report that Trumps decision may not be entirely clear cut and that aides continued to deliberate on caveats in the language.	The major Republican presidential candidates harshly criticized the Paris deal in particular and Trump promised to withdraw from it during the campaign.	Still withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for Americas role as a global leader.	Silicon Valley business leaders like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk have also been arguing that the US should stick to the agreement.	True
It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	Technology could help here too.	The operation only the second ever will be led by Island Conservation a US NGO that protects endangered species by removing invasive ones.	Led by Dr Herv Bossin of the Institut Louis Malard the programme breeds and releases non biting male mosquitoes infected with a Wolbachia virus that makes wild females who do bite sterile.	Mosquitoes are not the only pests the Tetiaroa Society is working to eradicate.	False
We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life.	Over the next two years those actions will face intense scrutiny on Capitol Hill.	Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement expanding drilling on federal lands and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks.	Within the first few months of the year incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them.	President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office.	True
The environmental activist's recent images taken while touring Canada's east coast in Montreal and Quebec are in sharp contrast to images of the 16 year old speaking in an emotionally charged appearance last month at the Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York.	Last week Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change saying 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed the haters are as active as ever going after me my looks my clothes my behaviour and my differences.	You are failing us.	Right here right now is where we draw the line.	Greta Thunberg's fiery speech at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York This is all wrong.	True
Gun control is perhaps the most widely known and publicized issue of the 2019 election.	It remains to be seen if any other of the other proposed bills will spark as intense a reaction.	However some push back from state residents might be stronger than expected as the anticipated assault weapons ban has caused 94 counties to declare themselves second amendment sanctuaries.	Following a shooting in Virginia Beach in June Northam called a special session of the legislature in order to address gun violence.	HB 145 mandates that the Virginia Department of Education come up with school board model policies concerning the treatment of transgender students in public elementary and secondary schools that address common issues regarding transgender students in accordance with evidence based best practices.	True
But unlike those figures which relied on one line of evidence the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result.	He added There is some debate about the precise amount of committed warming if we cease emitting carbon immediately.	In reality nothing is quite that straightforward.	That's not the right message to take at all.	But the ambition of Paris caught a lot of people by surprise.	True
Brown who has made fighting climate change a core of his policy and political platform said the state's battles with Washington over climate are the most essential.	The world is not flat pollution is not free and the health and safety of our children is not for sale said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra standing alongside the governor.	They argue the plan violates the federal Clean Air Act and didn't follow the agency's own regulations.	At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions.	If we follow the Pruitt Trump path we follow our way off the cliff to disaster he said.	True
Over the decades disputes arose over the government's changing definition of navigable with opponents complainingthe definition was too broad.	The debate over the water rule was part of a larger political flashpoint over environmental issues during the 2016 presidential campaign as Trump tried to appeal to rural Americans exasperated by federal regulations and the loss of property rights.	While the broader debate centered on climate change and clean air rules the waters rule was nearly as polarizing because its broad application could affect farming construction and other activities near federally regulated waters.	The issue has often come down to the definition of navigable waters under the Clean Water Act.	In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time Trump called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation.	True
The problem at least in the United States is Republicans in Congress and now the White House especially Trump who believes climates change is a hoax who continue to deny that the climate crisis is happening in the first place despite the overwhelming evidence.	Once again the biggest hurdle in battling climate change isnt the existence of feasible solutions those already exist.	Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration I just want to remind the administration that science is political.	As thousands of activists and scientists around the world gather to March for Science Bill Nye has a U.S. Constitution lesson for Donald Trump that proves he must advance scientific causes.	Donald Trump isnt just shirking his constitutional responsibility to advance scientific innovation but hesputting at risk the only planet we have.	True
On June 2 Nightly News correspondent Kristen Welker promoted an anti Trump protest over this decision hyping the backlash is only heating up.	The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism.	NBC Nightly News anchor Savannah Guthrie on June 1 criticized the move to withdraw from the climate treaty detractors say it is a stunning abandonment of the U.S.s leadership in the world and a grave threat to the planet itself.	Thus our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line Republicans supporting Trump Democrats criticizing him and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story such as statements from experts presented as non partisan voters or opinionated statements from the networks own reporters.	In their pursuit of this agenda the broadcast networks' have heavily criticized the Trump administration's policies on the environment.	True
And each is a threat to the life liberty and pursuit of happiness guaranteed to every person.	When the air we breathe and the water we drink are imminently threatened so that corporations can make more money life liberty and the pursuit of happiness are on the line.	Rolling back environmental protection regulations and willful denying of scientific data to forestall efforts to fight climate change is a direct threat to each persons right to life liberty and pursuit of happiness.	When the environment poses an unnecessary threat to ones health life is denied.	Securing the long term future of civil rights for LGBT people womens access to heath care and the flourishing of our environment that we may all enjoy life liberty and the pursuit of happiness rests not only on getting to the bottom of the Trump Russia scandal and draining the swamp in his administration along with the scandal covering right denying profit seeking in Congress but also on preventing the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.	True
Whats the takeaway from all this?	Both are states of events that you absolutely want to avoid.	They refer to a tipping point that were catapulting toward and must find a way to avert.	They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos.	First it was global warming andor global cooling.	True
This stance has ultimately led me to being systematically attacked any time I make a public statement about climate change in effect railroading me out of the climate debate as an unwelcome voice Pielke wrote.	Pielkes motivation in releasing an updated version of his book initially published in 2014 was he saw the issue of extreme weather become politicized.	Every time there is a disaster politicians journalists and scientists unfailingly spring to life to tell us that the disaster and the costs and suffering that accompanied it were associated with linked to or even caused by climate change Pielke wrote in his newly updated book.	While political spin doctors often find ways to parse language and statistics to say things that are plausibly defensible but which are ultimately misleading or just wrong for me such misrepresentations have gone too far in an area where I have some considerable expertise Pielke wrote.	The willingness of some in the media and the scientific community to offer false or misleading claims does not offer a route to scientific integrity Pielke wrote.	True
Theres an issue with that.	The main concern is the desires of the constituency who are massively opposed to this project Riggi told The Daily Caller New Foundation.	But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	He wrote an editorial in a local paper this week pledging to accept no quarter in the fight against the Lighthouse Wind farm.	The projectcould harm with the regions economy potentially creating problems fora nearbyU.S.	False
Its the biggest threat of all.	Pruitt said that it wasnt a lack of money that was plaguing the program but rather poor leadership and poor focus on the part of the Obama administration.	And in an interview with Fox Business after returning to Washington D.C. Zinke said whether climate change is contributing to the infernos is irrelevant to whats occurred.	Theres no denying the magnitude of the water crisis in the U.S. and abroad.	When a reporter later pressed him outside the White House Zinke said that of course climate change is a factor in the California fires a rather unconvincing acknowledgment considering previous remarks and the number of times Zinke cast doubt on the all but irrefutable body of scientific research that shows human carbon emissions are driving global climate change.	True
Curry who spoke at length with Mass about the events wrote The attacks ramped up when a group of students complained to the Assistant Dean for Diversity Equity and Inclusion.	The matter didnt end there however and Atmospheric Sciences Department Chair Dale Durran sent a mass email to the Department faculty including the link to Lenfernas post and voicing concern about Mass behavior and racism' Curry noted.	Climate scientist Cliff Mass is speaking out against academic political bullying from University of Washington faculty and students stemming from Masss rejection of a carbon tax initiative favored by activists.	Climate scientist Judith Curry detailed in a blog postWednesday the actions UW and student activists have taken against Mass in recent months.	The assistant deans email claimed the blog had imagery and text that was racially insensitive and caused offense to a significant number of members in the departmental community.	True
While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	We still have a long way to go in our understanding said Seewald who was not involved in the study.	Voytek said her money is still on Europa for potential life versus Enceladus since Europa is much older and any potential life there has had more time to emerge.	Launched in 1997 and now finally running low on fuel Cassini is drawing ever closer to its demise.	True
It also came two days after Trump issued another tweet transmitting his skepticism of the existence of Climate change.	Over half 53 of voters in the August Quinnipiac poll said climate change is a factor in making fires more extreme.	Trump has stood by his years old claim that climate change is a hoax and emphasized that belief with his statements about the California wildfires which he said were a result of poor forest management drawing criticism from firefighters climate scientists and many others.	In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll 83 of Democrats thought the US should be doing more compared to 62 of independents and 26 of Republicans.	Concern about climate change and global warming has gone up in the last few years from 33 who said they worry a great deal about it in March 2013 to 43 who say the same now according to Gallup Around the same number 45 said they think global warming will pose a serious threat to them or their way of life in their lifetimes in the March poll.	True
Womens suffrage and womens rights.	The civil rights movement and the anti apartheid movement in South Africa.	The abolition of slavery.	The climate crisis is by far the most serious challenge we face.	Former VP Al Gore compares climate battle to fight against slavery and apartheid Fox Friends tweeted.	True
Last week for example she came under fire from the Sunrise Movement and other climate change activists when she initially declined to participate in the televised Sept. 4 climate change town hall to attend a fundraiser.	She wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths focusing on environmental justice and enforcement said one of the sources.	At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail.	Since then both New York and Massachusetts have pursued cases against the oil company.	She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe.	True
In July 2014 Professor Happer caused controversy during an interview on CNBC television climate expert demonization of carbon dio200107 in the United States when he claimed that the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poor Jews under Hitler.	He was also forced to defend himself after Greenpeace revealed an exchange of email messages Email Chain Happer O Keefe and Donors Trust.html during which Professor Happer discussed writing reports to promote climate change denial in exchange for a secret fee paid to the CO2 Coalition.	The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers and the recruitment of supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy echoes the campaign by Joseph Stalins regime to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the disastrous lysenko soviet union russia548786 pseudo scientific theories of Trofim Lysenko.	Now a group of hardcore climate change deniers and contrarians linked to the administration is organising a petition leads coalition letter commission climate security in support of a new panel being set up by the National Security Council to promote an alternative official explanation for climate change.	The petition is being circulated for signature by Myron Ebell movement greatest threat freedom says trump adviser myron ebell of the Competitive Enterprise Institute a lobby group for free market fanatics which has become infamous for championing climate change denial It does not disclose its sources of funding but is known to have received money from ExxonMobil and conservative billionaires trump global climate change denial environment such as the Koch brothers.	False
In exchange for getting some of its national debt paid off the island nation has agreed to protect 210000 sq km 81000 sq miles of ocean.	This is a critical accomplishment in our mission to bring conservation to scale across the globe said Nature Conservancy CEO Mark Tercek.	This is understood to be the first debt swap designed to protect ocean areas in the world.	The Seychelles government agreed the debt swap with the Nature Conservancy a US charity and a number of investors back in 2016.	Seychelles President Danny Faure said Our large ocean brings development opportunities but also responsibility.	True
Two White House spokespersons did not respond to a question Monday about what Trump's tweet meant.	Trump complained that the water is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean and called for clearing forests as a means of stopping fires from spreading.	It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	But the president's claim about water drew a combination of laughing and head scratching on Sunday although years of drought may be one factor in the fires' quick spread.	So Im not sure what he was recommending' he told the San Francisco Chronicle.	False
Several demonstrators chanted in opposition at the open house style meeting where bureau scientists talked one on one with visitors and collected written comments.	Weve fought similar efforts before and we will fight them again Coastal Commission Chair Dayna Bochco said.	Why do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel said Jim Wilson a 71 year old retired mail carrier from Placerville outside Sacramento.	On Tuesday more than 100 demonstrators gathered outside Oregons state Capitol in Salem to denounce the proposal.	Fishermen environmentalists surfers and other critics demonstrated outside the state Capitol before marching to the meeting at a nearby library.	True
U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a reasoned explanation for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	In a way that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy.	On Wednesday one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	The action followed an earlier effort by Interior to postpone part of the rule set to take effect next year.	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda the Trump administration has had one goal in mind destroying former President Obamas environmental legacy.	True
Former Secretary of State John Kerry and Rep. Thomas Massie R Ky. had a heated exchange Tuesday over Kerry's education andclimate change.	The incredible exchange began when Massie read a quote Kerry said regarding President Trumps advisers.	Massie asked.	the former secretary of state asked.	the congressman asked.	True
Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers but it will come at a price penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.	That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform.	Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers.	True
No.	Were going to have that.	Asked on Saturday whether he thought climate change had a role in the fires he said you have a lot of factors.	Gusts of up to 50mph were threatening efforts to control the Camp blaze which is still only 55 contained 10 days after it brought devastation to northern California.	He said Managing the forest is part of it.	True
Caught on camera her stare sparked a thousand tweets and divided the public.	While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom.	People are suffering.	We are all Greta another resistance activist proclaimed sharing a photo of Thunberg scowling at Trump next to a photo of her meeting his predecessor Barack Obama.	Thunbergs fiery speech was likewise met with praise or disdain depending on where one stood in regard to the narrative of manmade climate change.	True
But the intense scrutiny Zinke was certain to face next year from House Democrats wielding new oversight authority turned out to be a fight that he or perhaps the boss hes been so loyal to wasnt up for.	And in a statement posted to Twitter the ongoing agency chief said he cannot justify spending thousands of dollars defending myself and my family against false allegations.	In his resignation letter to Trump Zinke wrote that vicious and politically motivated attacks against him had created an unfortunate distraction according to the AP.	While it appears on the surface that Zinkes departure was a personal decision the AP and The New York Times reported Saturday that the White House forced him out over concerns about ongoing scandals mounting scrutiny and negative press.	For all his feigned swagger Ryan Zinke lacked the courage or integrity to face accountability skipping town as soon as he faced scrutiny Evers said.	False
But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good.	On many concrete questions he wrote the Church has no reason to offer a definitive opinion she knows that honest debate must be encouraged among experts while respecting divergent views.	In his 2015 encyclical letter on the environment Francis urging nations and individuals to exercise more responsible stewardship of the created world but insisted that he wanted to encourage debate rather than pronounce on environmental issues.	It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures.	Ecocide is to be understood as the loss damage or destruction of the ecosystems of a given territory so that its utilization by inhabitants has been or can be seen as severely compromised he said adding that such a sin is a fifth category of crimes against peace which should be recognised as such by the international community.	True
Three weeks ago over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhousethe governor made a deal to disband the Independent Democratic Conference known as the IDC.	And on Monday 19 buses carrying more than 1500 activists from across the state converged on the state capital to protest Cuomos failure to do more about climate change in his eight years in office and make demands that looked identical to Nixons platform.It was the largest environmental protest against Cuomo since anti fracking activists staged demonstrations in 2014.	On Friday almost simultaneous to the release of Nixons climate platform Cuomo denied a water quality permit to a new natural gas pipeline environmentalists have protested for months and announced a new energy efficiency initiative that would account for one third of the emissions cuts required to meet his 2030 target.	There needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber ready for the governors signatureEnglebright said Friday.	As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers Cuomo is scrambling to act on long neglected progressive demands.	True
However Trump's team is also deeply divided on whether to withdraw from the pact according to US media reports.	Lacking unanimity Italy which currently presides the Group of Seven decided against proposing the joint statement Calenda said.	G7 energy ministers have failed to agree a statement on climate change this afternoonbecause of 'US reservations' it has emerged.	On March 30 the White House said a decision on whether to withdraw would be made ahead of the G7 summit in Italy in late May.	The ministers' agenda had called for discussion of energy security policies to move away from coal natural gas routes and supply sustainable development of electricity sources alternative fuel scenarios and energy access and investments in Africa.	True
When its not personal then you revert to what your team has been saying and the values your team has.	Zinke who declined to be interviewed for this story called the travel controversy a little BS in a public appearance.	As such the agency is often the arbiter between oil gas and mining companies seeking access to valuable resources embedded in public lands and environmentalists seeking to protect the same lands for biodiversity wildlife and recreation.	To make it cheaper for coal companies to strip mine in watersheds and make it more expensive for families to visit Yosemite is a perversion of American values said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club.	Hes on the Trump team.	True
Be the solution not the problem.	Problem solved.	But most readers were stumped or derisive.	But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.	True
The dispute offers a cautionary tale in what one critic described as regulatory capture of a state agency by a company with deep ties to the Trump administration and a reputation as an environmental pariah unafraid to deploy scorched earth tactics against its opponents.	But just a few months after those emails were sent Energy Transfer Partners and the state officials became embroiled in a vicious public fight over a massive drilling fluid spill and construction pollution.	After months of waging a public and at times bloody battle with protesters bivouacked outside its construction site in North Dakota law enforcement officers razed the encampment and arrested the holdouts.	This kind of pushback were getting from Rover that says You have absolutely no state authority this is all a FERC issue and the tenor and tone theyve taken to interact with us doesnt happen often Butler said.	The company has flagrantly challenged the OEPAs authority infuriating the agency and eliciting a rare public investigation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC the federal agency that regulates interstate electricity and natural gas operations.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	He also claimed that many scientists would debate the percentage of what is attributable to man versus normal fluctuations.	Its as simple as that.	No matter what the answer is most or all of it.	Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is contributing to climate change Icant tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity.	True
President Obama made commitments in this deal based off a costly power plan that we knew at the time was on shaky legal ground.	The decision by the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change is a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security.	Following Mr. Trump's announcement reaction from both supporters applauding Mr. Trump's move as well as those who disagree with the pull out was swift across the political spectrum.	Mayors and cities around the world to uphold the tenets of the Paris climate agreement and protect Boston against the very real impacts of climate change.	By walking away from this pact President Trump is abandoning America's leadership position in the fight against the climate crisis and is sending a strong message to the rest of the world to create design and manufacture clean energy solutions and create jobs elsewhere.	True
Since the caucus hadnt come up with many concrete solutions yet its unclear what it will do going forward.	But other governors races did not go as well one high profile candidate who made climate change a key part of his platforms Democratic Florida gubernatorial contender Andrew Gillum lost.	Measures like Colorados anti fracking Proposition 112 and Washington states Initiative 1631 to price carbon emissions were defeated in part due to a firehose of money being unleashed by fossil fuel interests.	Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U turn going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025.	Several state clean energy and environmental ballot initiatives were also thwarted at the polls.	True
The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity.	We know thats going to continue.	And that has to be a key component of all strategies.	Should they just get out?	Radley Horton There are many components to these storms.	True
Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday.	Ted Halstead the chief executive of the Climate Leadership Council said the group did not accept corporate contributions.	Michael B. Gerrard the director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia Law School and an expert on climate litigation said there had been four suits brought against energy companies over climate change including one brought by the eroding Arctic coastal town of Kivalina Alaska.	For this to pass it will have to pass on a bipartisan basis Mr. Halstead said.	But Mr. Halstead said the council had moved a little more to the center adding new leaders like Lawrence H. Summers a secretary of the Treasury under President Bill Clinton and Laurene Powell Jobs a philanthropist and the widow of the Apple founder Steve Jobs.	True
Pruitts maneuver to weaken coal ash standards has sparked grassroots outrage from red states and blue states.	As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitts conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement however its important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting.	One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said What are you doing?	Have you lost your mind?	Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants.	False
Here's the issue Pruitt told CNN in a phone interview.	... Those are things so important to citizens of Florida right now and to discuss the cause and effect of these storms there's the... place and time to do that it's not now.	To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	All I'm saying to you is to use time and effort to address it at this point is very very insensitive to this people in Florida.	And with all respect really that's where I have to focus on.	True
Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately.	In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system.	As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case.	In response the federal government argued this week that the injunction maneuver is a ploy to bypass proper legal proceedings.	Indeed Plaintiffs by their present motion are essentially making a bid in this Court for a substitute mini trial or trial lite which is premature until the pure issues of law now being briefed in this interlocutory appeal are appropriately resolved as a threshold matter wrote attorneys for the US Department of Justice.	True
Set aside for the moment the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours seven consecutive hours of prime time programming to the subject.	Banning nuclear energy.	1.	This one will leave a mark.	No compromises on the road to utopia.	True
Roxanne Quimby co founder of Burts Bees cosmetics and her foundation purchased tracts of land in the northern reaches of Maine with the purpose of creating a national park.	Environmental groups have vowed legal action to stymie any alterations to the protected areas.	A huge monument spanning nearly 500000 acres and proclaimed in May 2014.	When this plan was opposed by various state and federal politicians Obama stepped in to create a 87000 acre national monument dominated by mountains and lush forests.	The area was protected to safeguard an ecosystem of deep sea corals three species of whale and an endangered species of sea turtle the Kemps ridley.	True
That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released.	As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost.	When permafrost melts microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide causing even more warming.	He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate near surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century.	False
As they see it the problem is the one that Zinke and other administration officials refuse to acknowledge.	While Zinke works the logging angle Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross have attempted to connect devastating California wildfires to a longstanding fight between farmers and environmentalists over water resources.	But he didnt dwell on those factors and instead argued for more logging and thinning of forests while taking another swing at environmental groups that he says stand in the way of such efforts.	The left he said is angry intolerant and uninformed when it comes to public lands and environmental issues and they arent interested in debate one of the things that have made America great.	At a conservative event in Steamboat Springs Colorado on Friday Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke pounced on the opportunity to blast his critics including the environmental terrorists he blames for wildfires in the West.	True
Though similar to last weeks March for Science the march on Saturday will focus on Trumps efforts to remove regulations intended to protect the environment and curb climate change rather than scientific integrity.	As expected the response to Trumps executive order from the environmental community was swift and harsh.	Trumps signing of the America First Offshore Energy Strategy comes a day before the Peoples Climate March an international protest against Trumps energy and environmental policies.	The people have been heard and will continue to be heard Brune said.	This deprives our country of potentially thousands and thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in wealth.	True
We'll pass a win the solutions we need.	California is burning.	They asked me to join them and I did Ocasio Cortez tweeted of her involvement with members of the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats who visited several elected officials offices in the building.	The group urged her to step aside if she is unable to mandate such a plan.	pic.twitter.commw6dKSxPVj 350 dot org November 13 2018 Members of the Sunrise Movement responding to Pelosis support in their ownstatement on Twitter said they welcomed her endorsement but added that words arent enough.	True
One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an expresspriority saidJohn Walke director of theNatural Resources Defense Council's clean air program.	In the 14 months he's been the nation's top environmental rulemaker the former Oklahoma attorney general who sued the EPA more than a dozen times has rolled back the Clean Power Plan rescinded the Waters of the U.S. rule and helped convince the president to back out of the Paris Accord on climate change among a number of changes.	But environmental advocates warn it would be another damaging step by an administration obsessed withderegulation at the expense of hard fought public health protections.	This is a backhanded way of weakening the most important and sacrosanct provision of theclean Air Act and he's nodoing it through any normal legislative process said Bill Becker former executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies which represents state regulators.	Trumps action empowers Pruitt to ignore science and data in determining compliance with air quality standards saidSara JordanLegislative Representative for the League of Conservation Voters.	True
The greatest threat we face which will test our country our democracy every single one of us is climate change ORourke said in a statement.	ORourke the former Texas congressman made climate change the focus of his first major policy announcement unveiling the plan ahead of a campaign stop meeting with scientists at the iconic Yosemite National Park in California.	Beto claims to support the Green New Deal but his plan is out of line with the timeline it lays out and the scale of action that scientists say is necessary to take here in the United States to give our generation a livable future said Sunrise founder Varshini Prakash.	Still the upstart Sunrise Movement the youth led group that has pushed the Green New Deal into the spotlight said ORourkes plan fell short of what they said scientists said was necessary to fend off the worst impacts of climate change.	ORourkes measures include U.S. re entry into the Paris Climate Agreement ordering a reduction in methane emissions from oil and gas operations halting new drilling leases on federal land and restoring pollution standards for power plants.	True
I want to go beyond those issues said Del.	Now the monopolies critics fear that the companies which extract fossil fuels and generate energy in addition to transmitting it will seek to water down any efforts to combat climate change.	Virginia Del.	I feel like I have one foot in the old world and one foot in the new world to lead some of the new folks that came in in 2017 and will be coming in this year she said.	Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for.	True
Other emails show the often agonized discussions between staff unsure of what is forbidden.	Some staff werent enamored with the new regime with one employee stating on an email on 5 July that we would prefer to keep the language as is and stressing the need to maintain the scientific integrity of the work.	On 16 February a staffer named Tim Hafner write to Bramblett I would like to know correct terms I should use instead of climate changes and anything to do with carbon ...	In a separate email to senior employees on 24 January just days after Trumps inauguration Jimmy Bramblett deputy chief for programs at the NRCS said It has become clear one of the previous administrations priority is not consistent with that of the incoming administration.	In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms Moebius Clune wrote that references to economic growth emerging business opportunities in the rural US agro tourism and improved aesthetics should be tolerated if not appreciated by all.	True
With Congress deadlocked and President Donald Trump pulling the United States out of the Paris climate agreement Virginias election also highlights how the biggest opportunities to curb greenhouse gases are occurring at the state level.	Ralph Northam to fulfill his long thwarted ambition of bringing Virginia into the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI a compact among nine East Coast states to cap and trade greenhouse gas emissions credits.	Its part of a national campaign from environmental activists to push public officials to say no to money from the coal oil and natural gas industries.	Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top tier concern.	So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	True
But for now more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear.	Grace Quale a hospital laboratory technician who attended a service at an evangelical church on Sunday said that critics want to overthrow our president and that she didnt see a link between Bolsonaros environmental policies and the number of people getting treatment for respiratory problems.	But as breathing related ailments appear to be on the rise attention to the issue has largely been overshadowed by growingacrimony between Brazil and European countries seeking to help fight Amazon fires and protect a region seen as vital to the health of the planet.	The kids are affected the most.	Schneider an associate professor in the geography department said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years.	True
The environmental activist's recent images taken while touring Canada's east coast in Montreal and Quebec are in sharp contrast to images of the 16 year old speaking in an emotionally charged appearance last month at the Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York.	Last week Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change saying 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed the haters are as active as ever going after me my looks my clothes my behaviour and my differences.	You are failing us.	Right here right now is where we draw the line.	Greta Thunberg's fiery speech at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York This is all wrong.	True
Climate change was the biggest issue at the biennial meeting of the Arctic Council in Fairbanks which was overshadowed by the uncertainties over Mr Trump's policy.	They signed an agreement which stated there was a need for urgent global action.	We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States.	The thrust of the text argues Prof John Walsh chief scientist at the University of Alaska's International Arctic Research Center actually echoes the approach of the Obama administration.	We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns he said.	False
For us this is destruction.	What is being done here is an atrocity against us.	Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation of support for agribusiness of increasing pastures.	French President Emmanuel Macron had called the wildfires an international crisis and said the leaders of the G7 group of nations should hold urgent discussions about them during their summit in France this weekend.	Handech Wakana Mura another local leader within the forest said With each passing day we see the destruction advance deforestation invasion and logging.	True
In a letter sent to Congresson Wednesday morning the newly formed bipartisan coalition U.S.	Yet even as farmers reel from the effects of President Donald Trumps trade war with China Democratic candidates are far from guaranteed their votes.	Early on Republican opposition to the Green New Deal itself coalesced around the idea that such a program would ban beef production although supporters have clearly said it would not.	called for breaking up agriculture monopolies as part of her broad rural platform.	Regeneration International a sustainable farming nonprofit organized the missive with the climate justice group Sunrise Movement.	True
I would not call it the greatest crisis no he said.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Gaetzsaid at the press conference that he doesn't think the EPA has done a good job of combating climate change and said he wants to shift the debate among Republicans from focusing on theexistence of climate change to how to combat it.	In an indication of likely conservative opposition to Gaetz'splan advocacy group FreedomWorks issued a statement calling it a sad example of Republicans thinking theyre conservatives by being slightly to the right of far left.	he said.	The proposalincludes a host of costly and controversial big government programs including a push for net zero greenhouse gas emissions universal health care andjob guarantee programs.	False
Calls for the red team blue team exercise began in April one month before the date marked on the top of the documents.On April 20 the day before the March for Science protest in Washington D.C. New York University physicist Steve Koonin published an op ed in The Wall Street Journal calling for a red team blue team exercise to put the consensus to the test and improve public understanding through an open adversarial process.	The meeting included about 40 climate scientists economists lawyers and other experts to discuss the possible creation by the Trump administration of a Red Team Blue Team exercise on climate change he wrote.	The names included on the list suggest that the Heartland Institute wants the debate to go directly after the scientific and legal underpinnings of the EPAs regulations on climate change.	In my opinion the red team would win that debate on the carbon dioxide.	The next day Judith Curry a retired climatologist known for mocking other scientists as alarmists and Anthony Watts who runs a popular climate change denial blog endorsed the idea.The next week Pruitt met with Koonin for an hour according to schedules published by The Washington Post.	True
So the basis of all previous disagreements stems from who gets access to what.	Sunday's agreement goes some way to settling this dispute.	That is why disagreements over how to divide some of its huge oil and gas fields have been numerous and acrimonious.	But the arrival on the scene of new countries complicated this issue with ensuing claim and counterclaim.	It is an important step in the easing of regional tensions but the deal over the world's largest inland body of water matters for several reasons.	True
Your daily wrap up for the day in news.	This story is part of a group of stories called Vox Sentences is your daily digest for whats happening in the world.	YouTube Christina Thornell and Mac Schneider How a denial of tenure at Harvard became a national controversy Healthcare.gov glitches almost ruined the end of open enrollment.	Financial Times Were in a very politically difficult time right now where weve got one key world leader denying climate change so its very hard to get other countries to move forward when youve got such a critical country playing a spoiling role said Ian Fry a delegate from Tuvalu.	AP News Frank Jordans and Aritz Parra While the negotiations were meant to shore up the Paris agreement and define the terms on which the signatory countries would reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.	True
In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	The last time we had a really major existential threat to this country was around World War II Ocasio Cortez said at a campaign event.	3.	Ocasio Cortez the democratic socialist expected to become the next U.S. representative for New Yorks 14th Congressional District likened climate change to the existential threat posed by Nazi Germany and the Axis.	Last year Trump announced the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement which every recognized country on Earth has signed.	True
At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012 one participant argued that given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims they are unjustifiably speculative basically unverifiable and better not made at all.	They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory.	Event attributionthe ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warmingis exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst even according to true believers.	If attributing changes in migratory patterns of songbirds to global warming after a mere 12 years of observation strikes readers as highly suspicious thats probably because it is.	This means that birds such as the Townsends warbler and the rose breasted grosbeak are arriving either too soon and being met with frigid temperatures or too late and missing out on the insect boom that coincides with the new plant growth Lant stated.	True
And it flagged the way climate change will create new security challenges in the Arctic where melting ice means greater access but also greater international competition for the waterways.	Lawmakers pointing to President Donald Trump's skepticism about climate change and his administration's steady rollback of measures meant to mitigate the impacts of global warming were scathing.	Pentagon spokesman Lt. Col. Mike Andrews said the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to DOD missions operational plans and installations.	The report also raised very briefly the logistical challenge weather conditions can create for intelligence collection surveillance and reconnaissance as well as recovery and casualty evacuation.	The Pentagon did not answer multiple questions from CNN including why it failed to meet Congress' request to list the 10 most vulnerable installations why it mentioned no military installations outside the US or why the climate factors it considered did not include extreme weather and why Camp Lejeune isn't listed among the 79 installations.	True
Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	Slashing a program known for the collaboration between regulators and businesses and the effectiveness its achieved in reducing the backlog of leaking tanks would be crippling he said.	In a letter earlier this year to congressional leaders the head of the trade organization representing state solid waste agencies said the cut would impedethe long term progress states have made on inspection and cleanup.	At some point such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non responsive Thomas said.	But state officials environmental activists and public health advocates warn that the size of the cut carries great risk considering groundwater is the source of drinking water for nearly half of all Americans.	True
They're using stall tactics to defer action ignoring the courts and the demands of the American people.	A spokeswoman for EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declined to comment Friday on the authenticity of the leaked document but said the Obama administration pushed the bounds of their authority so far that the U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay to prevent the Clean Power Plan from taking effect.	The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers said Hal Quinn president and CEO of the National Mining Association.	Liz Perera climate policy director for the Sierra Club said repealing the Clean Power Plan is about one thing and one thing only helping corporate polluters profit.	The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43 page document which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry.	True
This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations said David Doniger senior strategic director of the Climate Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science public safety and reality said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	They blasted the EPA's announcement.	Environmental groups argue that in order to reduce climate change risks the world will have to stop burning coal.	This is the latest in a series of efforts the Trump administration has taken to help the coal business.	True
Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale.	I regret to inform you that Tuvalu cannot accept this document.58 Frys speech to the conference was a highly impassioned plea for countries around the world to address the issues of man made global warming resulting in climate change.	It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.	In his speech Fry claimed man made global warming to be currently the greatest threat to humanity and ended with an emotional the fate of my country rests in your hands.59 Tuvalus plightalso formed part of the basis for arguably the most hysterical fake news claim in the history of climate alarmism the UNs prediction that by the end of 2010 climate change would have created 50 million environmental refugees.	True
Eskridge faced the climate warming alarmist during a CNN town hall on global warming.	Gore asked.	But Im just not seeing it he said.	Eskridges plight to save his island reached mainstream media attention when President Donald Trump called him after seeing a CNN report about the disappearing islands Trump supporting mayor.	Gore is currently making the rounds to publicize the sequel to his global climate documentary An Inconvenient Truth.	True
The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape does not support the scenario of over exploitation.	We contest the common narrative that past human environment interactions must always be one of over exploitation and degradation.	Previous studies have put the blame for the collapse of the 'Green Sahara' onto these nomads who have often been marginalised in history but this latest studies dispels that myth.	Dr. Chris Brierley UCL Geography lead author said The possibility that humans could have had a stabilising influence on the environment has significant implications.	The spread of domestic animals across the Sahara occurred at a time of increasing climatic instability and yet these pastoralist populations thrived.	True
OCASIO CORTEZ CONTRADICTS HERSELF ON ROLE OF GOVERNMENT IN MASSIVE AND UNPRECEDENTED 'GREEN NEW DEAL' But the sweeping proposal was hit with mockery once the details were unveiled on Thursday with many pointing out how unrealistic the suggestions are.	I would love to understand this logic.	Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right?	Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	Right?	True
The coalition of states argued in a statement the delay would waste the substantial resources already expended in this litigation according to a statement from the group.	The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request fromthe Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama era policy known as the Clean Power Plan.	A coalition of states filed a legal challenge Wednesday against the Trump administrations decision to roll back a slew of Obama era climate regulations.	The Trump administrationsays this and other Obama era rules hinder the American economy and create a stultifying business environment.	Hehas engaged in a months long investigation into whether Exxon Mobilillegally hid internal climate research from the public and shareholders.	False
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a not for profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	The Washington Post reported in September that Konkus had been scrutinising grant applications for mentions of climate change which he reportedly calls the double C word.	Its not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing.	Lakely the Heartland spokesman responded that he had shared the article with colleagues asking them to jump to your aide sic and defend this position.	True
But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry.	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another.	True
VIDEO At his confirmation hearing in January Wheeler told lawmakers that climate change is a huge issue but not the greatest crisis.	However the policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	But its only a matter of time before his dirty dealings land him in the same trash heap as his predecessor said Emily Knobbe EPA policy specialist at the Center for Biological Diversity an Arizona based environmental group.	Video by PBS NewsHour Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia who supported Wheelers nomination as deputy last year voted against his promotion.	But Sen. Tom Udall D N.M. said Wheeler was failing to protect the environment and human health and was nominated to unravel and undo the environmental protections that are now in place.	True
I select my piece.	I ask.	There's a Caribbean delegation of fishers researchers and marine biologists here to pool ideas on how to fight their worst invasive species the lionfish.	No salt?	The sea is full of them and it's a big problem for biodiversity says Silvio Greco describing jellyfish as rampant opportunistic species that immediately take over any empty space in the water.	True
We will no longer accept this injustice.	RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	Activists are hoping to closely mirror the youth led March For Our Lives protests in Washington D.C. which took place nearly a year ago following the fatal Parkland Florida school shooting and spark more debate among lawmakers about the dangers of climate change.	We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday.	False
Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. who has made championing a so called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday.	Speakers included 350.org founder Bill McKibben The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones activist and Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinezand MayorDale Rossof deep red Georgetown Texas whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism.	This is going to be the Great Society the moon shot the civil rights movement of our generation she said.	That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require.	Despite stark policy differences with his chief rival in the primaries former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton supported fracking and raisedtwice as much from the oil and gas industryas her Republican opponent climate change remained a policy backwater in the election.	True
Another problem which compounds the first is that they get greedy.	The reasons this is a political problem for climate change warriors should be obvious.	First they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility.	Instead they harangued McConnell for pulling a stunt.	They might also think they missed a crucial plot point if the protagonists proposed a sweeping government effort to stop the meteor and then when given the opportunity to vote for it voted present in protest.	True
In truth this presents a problem for Trump.	Talk about all pain and no gain!	Twenty seven states led by West Virginia and several industry groups and trade associations challenged CPPs legality in federal court.	By rescinding it Trump is doing what he promised to do and what any president should do putting America first.	During the 2016 presidential campaign Trump said the United States faces numerous problems more important than climate change and he pledged to eliminate environmental policies hampering economic growth and domestic energy development targeting the CPP by name.	True
That's uncertain Bell said.	Were there oceans?	Were there ponds?	And they say their work could be relevant to places beyond our own planet that may have harsher environments than today's Earth.	But the researchers took great pains to test for contamination account for the exposure to heat and pressure and extrapolate back the original ratios Pinti said.	True
Ignore distort or censor.	Unacceptable and immoral.	The reports lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human caused climate change.	We need a vision and a plan to not willful ignorance.	Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change.	True
Wheres the presidents outrage about that?	Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated.	I dont know what hes getting at.	True
The partisan nature of the debate was not lost on the audience as one attendee interrupted the proceedings to ask Where are the Republicans?	This is not a red or a blue issue he said.	This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle.	That is just completely and totally unacceptable.	Trumps top aides who are split on whether or not the US should remain part of the Paris accord were scheduled to meet on Thursday afternoon to discuss the deals future.	True
Environmentalist groups have reacted with outrage and the Center for Biological Diversity said these proposals would slam a wrecking ball into the most crucial protections for our most endangered wildlife.	Environmentalists fear the new language will make it possible for government biologists to disregard the long term effects of climate change on the environment.	Wolves which were re introduced in the lower 48 states have faced criticism from ranchers and farmers who argue that they have impacted their livelihood by killing their livestock.	The US government says they want the language clarified to make it clear that it extends only as far as wildlife officials can reasonably determine that both the future threats and the species' response to those threats are probable.	If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing.	True
We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	Honored to join Indigenous leaders and native peoples as they fight for climate justice DiCaprio tweeted.	At the marquee climate protest the Peoples Climate March in Washington tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House.	In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it.	Any marchers who used their phones to look at the EPA climate change website would have been greeted with a message from the new administration This page is being updated.	False
This was compared to 60 million megawatt hours of energy produced from coal in the same month.	The Trump administration on Wednesday completed one of its biggest rollbacks of environmental rules replacing a landmark Obama era effort that sought to wean the nation's electrical grid off coal fired power plants and their climate damaging pollution.	The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy.	In April for the first time ever the US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal in a single month.	Growth in both solar and wind power has been particularly stark with the former producing 48 times more electricity than it did a decade ago due to cheaper equipment and government incentives.	True
RELATED Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administrations Event At UN Meeting Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy.	The price hikes however triggered a wave of intense riots.	The protests which have lasted for weeks have even become deadly.	One man was caught on video over the weekend losing his hand to a grenade explosion.	While many have expressed dissolution over the prospect of a carbon tax future other green activists plan to keep charging forward with their own proposals.	True
Hes going to have to take a pretty strong stand.	Ill tell you what I havent seen anything better that addresses the singular crisis we face a crisis that could at its worst lead to extinction he said.	The Sludge an investigative website reported last December that ORourkes Senate campaign failed to comply with a pledge not to knowingly accept contributions of more than 200 from the oil and gas industry.	ORourkes campaign did not respond to questions about whether he plans to sign the pledge or how his qualified support for natural gas is compatible with the Green New Deal.	Environmental advocates and experts wait to see if as ORourke pivots from an election in a conservative led oil state to a national primary race heavily influenced by left leaning Democratic candidates he will have more latitude and desire to put progressive green policies at the heart of his strategy.	True
And the problem is getting more severe.	The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally.	Controlling emissions from agriculture is also a food security issue.	Given how much land it takes to grow food to feed livestock meat production is a leading cause of deforestation.	If greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase as they are doing today it will exacerbate those challenges and eventually make it all but impossible to control global warming without creating serious food shortages.	True
And to me the answer is innovation.	Sometimes the pot calls the kettle black.	But to scientists Koch remains a climate pariah who has learned how to temper his message for audiences who dont buy into the view that industry players are somehow more credible than impartial researchers.	So the forces of denial the special interests the polluting interests have instead turned to a new talking point that they think they might be able to get away with.	But the question is What do we do about it about whatever risk there is?	True
As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia Washington D.C. for anexclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world.	And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	Bookers support for nuclear power and a carbon fee has tempered any praise from the Climate Justice Alliance a network that fears these policies would hurt more than help affected communities.	Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus.	True
To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator.	The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor.	It is crazy to think about having an EPA administrator who has nothing to offer in replacement of an admittedly not so good regulatory solution former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. now the executive director of the conservative environmental advocacy group RepublicEn told HuffPost by phone on Tuesday.	These people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this timehe added referring to the Trump administration.	Elsewhere a spate of fierce hurricanes inundated parts of the South and Caribbean.	True
Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data.	The New York Times highlighted the IPCCs warning of a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires and a mass die off of coral reefs as soon as 2040.	For example The Washington Posts write up of the IPCCs report focused on the mainline findings namely that the world is woefully off target to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Changes IPCC newly released climate report once again found little to no evidence global warming caused many types of extreme weather events to increase.	RELATED Its The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming Until The Next Chance When it comes to droughts for example the IPCC admits there is low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale.	True
We are here today because our climate is under threat Mr. Vella said.	The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia.	Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions.	These problems are just as real in Europe as they are elsewhere around the globe he asserted.	The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a point of no return is to be found in political will.	True
On the political side a lack of engagement strength and leadership from Washington and the White House Garcetti said in an interview.	This really is about interaction economic development.	Certainly there's some change in policy at the national level with this administration creating a bit of change and foreign governments are wanting to interpret that said Scott Pattison the NGA's executive director and chief executive officer.	They need to be more thoughtful.	Jerry Brown and Lt. Gov.	True
Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public.	When the wind doesnt blow and the sun doesnt shine the power doesnt flow.	Abbotts speech which is causing Australias notoriously left wing media to explode like ripe watermelons struck by hollow point bullets ought to serve as a painful reminder to Australias Liberal party of the talent they lost when they decided to knife this Jesuit trained Oxford educated rock solid family man conservative in the back and replace him with the slippery Davos style globalist Turnbull.	Here are some of the highlights Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti Christian society If science was all about consensus wed still be living in caves Greens want to make life nasty brutish and short Wheres the evidence for climate catastrophe?	Abbott is one of only a handful of world leaders to have spoken out against the global warming consensus.	True
Like this story?	In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures.	Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State.	Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower.	Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past.	True
pic.twitter.comNWIO1aRvM3 Alejandro Alvarez September 23 2019 Climate activists are shutting down major intersections throughout DC.	Im in downtown DC where climate activists with Extinction Rebellion have blocked the intersection of K and 16th streets with a big sailboat that says rebel for life.	pic.twitter.comJhjVBr1hU3 Sam Sweeney September 23 2019 Mondays protests come on the heels of a worldwide climate strike on Friday a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the largest climate rally ever.	Activists demanding a greater global response to climate change disrupted Monday morning commutes with protests in Washington D.C.	The organizers said their goal was to shut down the center of decision making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy.	True
Like this story?	The candidate complained the fuss over his plagiarism was much ado about nothing and blamed rival campaigns for blowing the issue out of proportion.	Biden's campaign waited the better part of a day to address the charges as the news spread buoyed by anger at the candidate over news he'd lied about marching in the civil rights movement finally telling Business Insider that while they had inadvertently left out several citations from the final version of the document posted to the website it had been updated to include references.	Caught in a pile of lies the campaign responded with a strikingly similar excuse To the degree it wasn't attributed it was an oversight or inadvertent Biden's 1988 campaign aide told the New York Times.	Compounding the gaffe the Carbon Capture Coalition's membership includes the country's largest fossil fuel companies not such strange bedfellows for Biden who received a D grade from Greenpeace last week largely due to his lack of environmental policy but less than ideal for a candidate trying to reinvent himself as green.	False
Something must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.	None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	Now what does he want?	They obviously dont want that.	None Turkey's president Erdogan bluffed Trump out of Syria.	True
This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible.	This is the existential threat de Blasio said.	... We have to do it ourselves.	CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP But the prospect of private development on the newly built land is sure to meet resistance from downtown Manhattan community members.	The fact is it is not.	True
It was a basic question asking if the lines followed each other.	Wehrum tried to sleazily worm his way out of answering the simple question.	With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria it cannot be ignored any longer.	You can watch a video of the hearing below.	They refuse to see it accept being ignorant and continue their refusal to acknowledge that climate change is real and it will have and already has had devastating effects on the planet.	True
During the 2016 Democratic primary Sanders clashed with Clinton over climate change attacking her support for increased gas drilling in a heated debate.	Sanders has also drawn heat recently for his uncertain stance on reparations for the descendants of slaves and for quietly hiring a journalist who frequently attacked his 2020 opponents on Twitter as an adviser.	After Clinton clinched the nomination the issue disappeared without a single question asked during three debates between Clinton and her Republican opponent Donald Trump.	In February he attacked Trump for ignoring climate change in his State of the Union address.	Carbon emissions from campaign travel first became an issue during the 2004 election when the NRDC Action Fund an affiliate of the Natural Resources Defense Council began raising concerns about the huge amount of fuel candidates burned crisscrossing the country.	True
While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive he is now convinced that somethings changing and itll change back again according to aninterviewhe gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday.	Meanwhile he doesnt want to sacrifice the economic well being of our country for something that nobody really knows.	Some might argue the concept of a long term when it comes to the environment was rendered irrelevant by the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report.	Trump may believe in climate change now but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have a very big political agenda.	Trumps appointee to the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt notoriously attempted to roll back several key environmental regulations passed under Barack Obama including the Clean Power Plan the Clean Water Rule and a proposed ban on the pesticide chlorpyrifos.	False
Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trumps decision to withdraw from the agreement.	Leonardo DiCaprio says Trumps move threatens the livability of our planet and yet DiCaprio flew a private jet 4000 miles from Cannes France to New York to accept a climate award and then flew back privately Carlson went on to explain.	You can tell by the outraged looks on their faces and the purple rhetoric Carlson said.	They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson Elon Musk and Bill Gates in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton.	Elon Musk meanwhile is mad about global warming too.	True
What is doing this to us?	I think I know what the problem is he says.	What can we do?	No one has any answers.	Can you help us?	True
The islands with no rats are full of birds they're noisy the sky is full and they smell because the guano the birds are depositing back on the island is very pungent.	Coral reef systems are at crisis point because of climate change said Prof Graham.	The much maligned rat is not a creature many would associate with coral reefs.	But scientists studying reefs on tropical islands say the animals directly threaten the survival of these ecosystems.	Rats decimate seabird populations in turn decimating the volume of bird droppings a natural coral fertiliser.	True
What's the latest on the ground?	RFS founder and former commissioner Phil Koperberg told the Sydney Morning Herald People are nervous and they have a right to be... the worst is yet to come.	The severity of the blazes so early in the fire season has caused alarm and prompted calls for greater action to tackle climate change.	What could be wiped out by temperature rise Hundreds of bushfire survivors and farmers converged on the nation's capital Canberra this week in protest.	A mega blaze raging across a 60km 37 mile front north of the Australian city of Sydney cannot currently be put out fire officials have warned.	True
That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	Tangier Island's steadfast rejection of climate change reflects the rigidity of American opinions about global warming often defined along political party lines.	Conservative climate activists like Rob Sisson of ConservAmerica and Mitch Hescox of the Evangelical Environmental Network said the rejection of climate change by Tangier residents is not surprising their groups often have trouble convincing fellow Republicans global warming is a real issue.	Journalists and politicians now view the island as a symbol of the climate crisis.	Often they say people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to.	False
That worsens the violence that many cite as a main reason for fleeing northward.	Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress.	A quasi fascist policy of fear mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trumps response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos said Ashley Dawson author ofExtreme Cities The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change.	Climate change is contributing to make nations unstable both nations in our neighborhood and others abroad said Femia whose Washington based policy institute includes former top national security advisers.	The president attempted to cut funding forUnited States Agency for International Development by 33 percent this year though bipartisan support for the federal governments dedicated aid agency staved off the proposal.	False
What risks do protesters take?	Lecuyer stresses that non violence is part of our action consensus it is forbidden to harm the security forces site employees or to damage the equipment.	Lecuyer says that some activists experience a form of trauma ... due to the high emotions from stress and excitement and the physical effort because you have to walk for miles in groups to the target pass police roadblocks sometimes under water cannon or pepper spray and then hold the blockade.	Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience especially among young people.	Tadzio Mueller a German organiser of the movement argues that massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos.	True
University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	Brown is right in one sense.	Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	California Democratic Gov.	What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity.	True
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a non profit promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	The Washington Post reported in September that Konkus had been scrutinizing grant applications for mentions of climate change which he reportedly calls the double C word.	It's not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing.	Lakely the Heartland spokesman responds he's shared the article with colleagues asking them to jump to your aide sic and defend this position.	True
The bad news came fromthe American Lung Association's annual State of the Air report which covers the years 2015 2017.	The bad news about air pollutionspread nationwide in thereport Smog and soot choked air is worsening amid heat waves and bigger wildfires as environmental protections are rolled back.	The boom in people brings an increase in cars and trucks on the roads and many of those people live in valleys and basins right where pollution tends to settle.	Soot pollution is deadlier and more of a health hazard than smog causingmore premature deaths and lung cancer the lung association said.	The state would be much worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants.	False
The drama unfolded less than a day after the Feb. 7 rollout of the now beleaguered deal.	He often engages in legal battles against attorneys who sue energy companies over climate change.	Richardsons group is also on the front lines in battles against anti oil activists.	Ocasio Cortezs staff was forced to ding the document from the website and clarify the lawmakers position.	Christopher Horner a senior fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute told TheDCNF that Steyers reticence to leap into the fray is probably a smart tactic given the GDNs controversy.	True
The American political conversation about climate is indeed scary and depressing.	As the CEO of one of Americas historically coal dependent utilities Tom Fanning of the Southern Company says You cant keep waves off the beach.King Canute knew this.	Lets begin with bringing back coal.	The world rightfully worries when they hear Donald Trump proclaim he is going to bring back coal and watch the administration and the Republican Congress try to roll back such common sense requirements limits on the wasteful flaring and leaking of methane from oil and gas fields.	But the decarbonization of the real U.S. economy as opposed to the cardboard fossil fuel handicapped White House version continues.	True
Its a matter of survival former Kiribati President Anote Tong said after meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama that year.	Also the removal and the clearing of the native vegetation respectively caused marked changes in island configuration and shoreline destabilization on some islands Duvat wrote.	The study findings may seem counter intuitive given that sea level has been rising in the region over the past half century but the dominant mode of change over that time on Tuvalu has been expansion not erosionKench said in February.	When the United Nations met in 2015 to hash out the Paris climate accord Kiribati joined other island nations in calling for an international agreement to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	That may come as a shock in light of reports that Pacific Islanders in places like Kiribati are becoming climate refugees because of rising sea levels which many scientists blame on greenhouse gas emissions.	True
Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed.	Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse.	That Trump would nominate a lifelong oilman to succeed John Kerry who led the U.S. through the Paris climate negotiations of late 2015 as the nations top diplomat resulted in predictable and fierce pushback.	Rep. Barbara Lee D Calif. also took issue with Pompeos past statements on climate change.	Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community she said.	True
Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	Rising emissions from on road transportation has undercut the states efforts to reduce pollutionaccording to Next 10 San Francisco based non profit.	Some people say 2035 some people say 2040 she said.	Brown one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. Ive gotten messages from the governor asking Why havent we done something already?	The trade association represents Toyota Honda Motor Co. and other overseas carmakers in the U.S. We have been working with California on intelligent market based approaches to emissions reductions beyond 2025 and we hope that this doesnt signal an abandonment of that position Global Automakers Chief Executive Officer John Bozzella said in a statement.	True
Want climate news in your inbox?	The rules created potentially unduly burdensome requirements for oil and natural gas production operators on the Outer Continental Shelf without meaningfully increasing safety of the workers or protection of the environment says the new 176 page rule which is scheduled in the coming days to be published in the Federal Register before becoming the administrations final policy.	Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter.	This rule supports the administrations objective of facilitating energy dominance by encouraging increased domestic oil and gas production and reducing unnecessary burdens on stakeholders while ensuring safety and environmental protection the new rule says.	WASHINGTON The Trump administration has completed its plan to roll back major offshore drilling safety regulations that were put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster in 2010 that killed 11 people and caused the worst oil spill in American history.	False
Trumphas alternately ignored or denied the climate crisis.	They called the Paris agreement a start not a finish line but the best ignition switch the world could agree on to spark international cooperation on this critical issue.	But organizers of local city and state efforts to curb the crisis across America say the US is still trying to play a role in fighting the climate crisis despite the actions of the federal government.	Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world.	Senator Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel said Once again President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain.	True
Whoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went onto the streets will need to deliver now said Sven Giegold a leading candidate for the German Green party that scooped up more than 20 of the vote nationwide an increase of almost 10 compared with 2014.	Armin Laschet the governor of Germanys most populous state North Rhine Westphalia and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkels center right Union bloc called the outcome a wake up call for politics.	The enmity was reflected in comments by Alexander Gauland the co leader of the far right Alternative for Germany party who declared the Greens our main enemy on Monday.	People didnt take to the streets to elect or kick out a party but for these problems to be solved.	The climate issue is super important at the moment Tran said.	False
Like this story?	Elections have consequences.	It's the damage we are doing to the planet one Twitter user noted in response to the Now This video.	Scott's strategy for dealing with it is denial.	The motive behind Scott's alleged science denial has also received media attention.	True
Global Change Research Program.	But Ekwurzel cautions that we can't merely adapt our way out of this mess.	It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	Here are some key points.	Extreme weather events could also cause price spikes and interrupt international trade.	True
Theres enough to deal with with respect to the Paris agreement and making an informed decision about this important issue he said.	They werent doing enough and America was carrying the load so I think by negotiating a better deal hopefully we can get a better result for our country and the world.	But he added Measuring with precision from my perspective the degree of human contribution is very challenging.	Pruitt claimed Trump wants better terms within the Paris framework or an entirely new deal and dismissed warnings from world leaders that it is not negotiable.	The EPA administrator was asked repeatedly whether Trump believes climate change is a hoax as Trump previously claimed but refused to give a straight answer.	True
For natural gas companies its a threat to their existence.	Thats exactly the wrong direction Nilles said.	Its the only thing that people ever ask about Bruce Nilles who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute a Colorado based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency said in the USA Today report.	And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame its an unthinkable loss.	The idea that denying access to natural gas in new homes is necessary to meet emissions reduction goals is false American Gas Association President and CEO Karen Harbert.	False
The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	There was no mention of oil in this context in the summary.	Meeting the 1.5C limit required rapid far reaching and unprecedented change in land and energy use industry buildings transport and cities it said adding temperatures would be 1.5C higher between 2030 and 2052 at the current pace.	It said keeping the rise in temperature to 1.5C would mean sea levels by 2100 would be 10 cm lower than if the warming was 2C the likelihood of an Arctic Ocean free of sea ice in summer would be once per century not at least once a decade and coral reefs would decline by 70 90 percent instead of being virtually wiped out.	True
The question of unfairness cropped up again and again how the world's worst polluters China and India had no meaningful obligations placed on them by the deal.	Opponents say withdrawing from the accord is an abdication of US leadership on a key global challenge.	Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called the decision one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st Century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing.	Leaders of the Nordic nations Sweden Finland Denmark Norway and Iceland also condemned the move.	Speaking in the White House Rose Garden Mr Trump characterised the Paris agreement as a deal that aimed to hobble disadvantage and impoverish the US.	True
When it comes to advice the agency receives the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua in which the pagans are instructed to choose this day whom you will serve either God or the gods of your fathers.	Scott Pruitt doesnt want to listen to a word from anyone who isnt in the pocket of corporate polluters Sierra Club Executive Director Michael Brune said in a statement.	As it relates to grants from this agency youre going to have to choose said Pruitt who described the new rule as a way of ensuring theres integrity in the process and that the scientists that are advising us are doing so without any kind of appearance of conflict.	Wholly unaddressed by the directive is any counterpart prohibition on scientists funded by industries with conflicts of interest from serving as EPA advisors Richard Denison a lead senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund wrote in a blog post.	True
Thousands break off every year.	But the threat is expected to return to the coastal South African city again next year and beyond.	There are also questions on how the water from the iceberg will be channelled into the city's distribution system.	Mother Nature has been teasing mankind with this for a long time saying 'this is here'.	Earlier this year Cape Town came within weeks of shutting off all its taps and forcing residents to queue for water rations at public standpipes.	True
Thecreationof the DMZ in 1953 marked a ceasefire in a war that divided Korea and resulted in the deaths of 2.5 million people including more than 36000 American soldiers.	With the exception of Panmunjom a small village where peace negotiations were held and is still the site of some diplomatic engagements people are not allowed in the DMZ.	The NIE regularly updates Koreans about the state of nature in the DMZ through videos it posts on its social media accounts.	Other areas could be designated for economic cooperation and travel.	South Korea applied for registry in 2012 but was thwarted by North Korean opposition according to the Dong A Ilbo.	False
Responding to challenges in the energy sphere one issue at a time results in many conservatives missing the forest for the trees and not talking enough about what pro market energy policy looks like.	Unwittingly in conservatives quest for equal treatment of different energy sources they have adopted policies that reinforce governments role in dictating energy outcomes.	Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles.	Conservatives have an opportunity to retake the energy narrative with a platform that favors competition and choice.	While the Left is happy to use regulation to promote specific forms of energy they find ideologically appealing the response from conservatives all too often has been to weakly offer the all of the above catchphrase as a counterweight.	True
This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	In 50 years she says it's going to be very different.	We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible.	But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals.	Scientists and climate researchers have long doubted that the 1.5 degree C goal was practical or economically feasible.	True
The decision by Khurelsukh's cabinet to distribute air purifiers is a very bad decision Davaadalai said.	Worried parents have held protests to press the government to take action.	But Smog and Kids representative Tumendalai Davaadalai said air purifiers were not the answer to the problem.	But Maria Neira the head of the WHO's public health department said the real solution to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it.	Her machine which filters out toxic fumes cost her 300.	False
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	There are several dangers that would face the colonists.	But what should happen after that first step?	Imagine an opportunity of building an entirely new world from scratch!	It will be essential that we map and evaluate all possible resources that could be useful.	False
Although DiCaprio is a self proclaimed environmentalist he continued to live an incompatible lifestyle of massive carbon emissions.	Clooney criticized global warming skeptics as stupid and ridiculous in 2013.	The actor also asked if are we too late to stop climate change and blasted the supposed corporate greed of the coal oil and gas industries in January 2016.	But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.	True
Our health hangs in the balance too.	Climate change is a threat multiplier for much broader dislocation accelerating the complex factors that drive people from their homes.	Its not just the future of the environment thats at stake here.	At a February meeting on climate change and health former Vice President Al Gore focused his talk on this problem.	Brian Deese a senior adviser to President Barack Obama overseeing climate change and energy policy and former Ebola czar Ron Klain explained why in a piece at the Washington Post Climate change destroys habitats and stresses animal populations such as the bats of West Africa forcing them to hunt for food nearer to humans.	True
The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.	Asked Do you believe in climate change?	Well I think that both sides have you know their own results from their studies and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science Craft said.	Though several members of the Trump administration including President Trump himself continue to cast doubt on humans role in the changing climate without providing any evidence its simply not a matter on which scientists disagree at all.	A Global News report from 2017 provides some details about him While the Crafts have a personal financial stake in pushing climate denialism other prominent Republicans have tried to tamp down on the conclusions of the Climate Assessment by citing concerns about the impact curbing greenhouse gas emissions would have on industry and jobs.	True
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	And therein lies the problem.	The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans.	To make sure the two sides stay in touch such meetings are to take place at least once every six months in accordance with an agenda approved by them in advance of every meeting.	For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries.	True
Recall the false promises about corn and cellulosic ethanol The Wall Street Journal editorial board wrote of the study.	However Congress is debating whether or not to extend electric car subsidies.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Its better read as a warning that new technologies arent a climate change panacea.	True
We are watching with bated breath the teamwrote.	The growth spurt between May 25 and May 31 was the largest they have observed since January Project MIDAS says and the inevitable splintering of Ice Shelf C will drastically alter the landscape of the continent and will make the ice that remains less stable.	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities.	Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreements goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	The group is unsure exactly when the rapidly growing crack will cause Ice Shelf C to break free from Antarctica but believes that the rift has now reached a region of soft ice and that there is very little holding the ice shelf together.	True
It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates like what executive orders they would sign how high climate change ranks as a priority and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy.	CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy.	Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Much of the discussion was shallow and uninformative partly a consequence of having to split attention across 20 candidates.	Washington Gov.	True
But Zinke is correct that environmental litigation has kept federal agencies including the Interior Department and U.S. Forest Service from thinning clearing debris and conducting prescribed burns to keep forest growth in check.	Randi Spivak public lands program director at the Center for Biological Diversity said the administration is missing the main issue by being dismissive of climate changes effect on the fires.	The judge sided with environmental groups and ruled renders the Project inconsistent with the desired vegetative conditions set forth in the Payette Forest Plan from 2003.	Environmentalists have obviously not taken kindly to Zinkes remarks but are particularly incensed by his dismissal of global warming as a driver of catastrophic wildfires.	The day before that Zinke lambasted environmental terrorists groups that have not allowed public access that refuse to allow harvest of timber in aninterviewwith Breitbart Radio.	False
In this episode the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC.	It's thought to have resulted in thousands of deaths.	But it's not always been like that.	The fight against air pollution in three global cities Why is India worse off than China?	What differentiates China from India is that in the latter there is still a lot of burning of agricultural stubble when farmers want to clear their fields.	True
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	The Assisi diocese joined the dioceses of Caserta and Gubbio in this symbolic gesture along with dozens of other Catholic organizations throughout the world such as the Archdiocese of Cape Town the Belgian bishops conference the German Bank for Church and Caritas.	Coordinating these efforts is the World Catholic Climate Change Movement which in January sponsored the first world conference on fossil fuel divestment from a Catholic perspective at Romes Pontifical Lateran University.	As part of the Pope for Ukraine initiative Francisdonatedmore than 2.5 tons of fuel per displaced family cared for by the parish of the Holy Theotokos in the village of Vilcha.	Earlier this year Pope Francis momentarily departed from his denunciation of fossil fuels offering a large donation of tons of cost effective fuel briquettes to heat the homes of internally displaced persons IDPs in Ukraine.	False
After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site state Representative Gerry Pollet who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest called their actions outrageous.	The disposal of radioactive waste at Hanford has been plagued with problems.	I am shocked to see something like this in 2017 Pollet said.	They are here for the money and thats it Carpenter told KING.	The one thing you dont want to do is create more waste sites said Dirk Dunning a chemical engineer and Hanford expert.	False
Social media users were quick to criticize Bidens response with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didnt really work out so well.	Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished asking By the way did you know Im the guy who did all this?	Biden has been criticized for reportedly planning a middle ground approach to climate policy that is accused of lacking urgency and not going far enough.	Joe Biden has been roundly mocked on Twitter after making the unlikely claim to a young activist appealing for a presidential debate on climate change that he kicked off the whole global warming movement back in the late 1980s.	A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group.	True
This is critically important for two main reasons.	The other is that particulate emissions play a key role in the bureaucratic politics of climate change.	Climate change garners most of the headlines but the Trump administration is pushing a much larger and broader pro pollution agenda whose latest manifestation is a push at the EPA to overturn a long established scientific consensus that fine particulate pollution colloquially soot kills people.	Tony Cox an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPAs Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee argues that the EPAs agencys current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor.	Each of these impacts independently suggests that we are currently allowing too much air pollution and they also cry out for more research that attempts to assess the long term cumulative impact of pollutants that appear to induce cognitive problems throughout the life cycle.	False
Video showed thousands marching in the streets of Washington where former Vice President Al Gore Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Virgin Atlantic owner Richard Branson showed up to protest as well.	This weekends protests come one week after last weeks March for Science.	A mid spring snowstorm in Colorado over the weekend postponed a rally that sought to bring attention climate change and global warming as well as protest President Donald Trumps climate policies.	The Peoples Climate March which was supported by hundreds of thousands across the country and tens of thousands in Washington was sponsored by environmental groups labor unions and social justice groups.	We know we arent in the business of risking anyones safety.	True
Peter Robbins an FPL spokesman said Mayor Stoddard is wrong.	At Fukushima in Japan an earthquake and tsunami disrupted power supplies and caused the fuel in some units to meltdown.	Repairs cost about 90 million.	Things are better today than in March 2011.	He said he was more worried about the nuclear waste than the reactors.	True
The consent decrees here involve violations of federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama era environmental regulations as possible.	Less enforcement doesnt mean there arent a whole lot of violations that are out there said Eric Schaeffer executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush in a call with reporters.	And as I pointed out last month in this feature story hes also overseen a drastic slowdown in the day to day work of the agency.	True
Mr Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris agreement was met with dismay around the world yesterday.	Jeremy Corbyn said 'Given the chance to present a united front from our international partners she Mrs May has instead opted for silence and once again subservience to Donald Trump.	It's a dereliction of both her duty to this country and our duty to our planet.'	But she was criticised by Labour for failing to add her name to a joint statement issued by European leaders to say that the Paris climate accord cannot be renegotiated as Mr Trump has demanded.	She stressed the importance of the fund in heading off wider humanitarian crises such as droughts and floods and said leaders should focus on cutting waste from the programme rather than pumping in more cash immediately.	False
Sometimes you do fight fire with fire.	You have to deploy your resources on each side of the fire and continue to construct lines.	This fire moved so fast I don't think anybody did anything wrong Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently.	If you don't evacuate and it becomes a rescue situation then our firefighters are taken away from the firefight and moved to the rescue.	And straying away from natural burning cycles has also contributed to the lethality of recent fires Prof Peterson says.	True
The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist.	Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'	The 16 year old Swedish face of climate activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?'	at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year accusing them of failing the younger generation.	The young activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk fr klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year.	True
Nye for his part has been one of the most belligerent apostle for the environmental movement.	Nye who is well known for hosting a childrens TV show in the 1990s scolded CNNs New Day Saturday panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicistWilliam Happer.	Comedian Bill Nye accused CNN of doing a disservice to its viewers for inviting a well respected physicist on Earth Day to argue about the legitimacy of man made global warming.	He told reporters that climate change is tremendously exaggerated adding that climate research is important but I think its become sort of a cult movement in the last five years.	He went on to say that Nyes views on science are backward.	False
I believe theres climate change Walberg said according to a video of the exchange obtained first published by the Huffington Post.	No.	he continued.	Walberg was speaking to constituents in Coldwater Mich. last week when he was asked about climate change.	Do I think man has some impact?	True
Critics have railed against the Interior Department for moves seen as halting scientific growth.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement.	'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	And Interior Department climate scientist Joel Clement allegedthat he and dozens of other scientists had been arbitrarily reassigned.	Additionally his proposed 2018 budget would cut funding for the Office of Surface Mining which is responsible for protecting society and the environment from the adverse effects of surface coal mining operations.	True
Deal with it later?	Demand to be treated like adults.	We require teamwork to endure what is coming.	Three well known parables apply One more stick with the pin?	We must develop a mutually supportive community again.	True
This is the first of perhaps more events like that to come Tina Neal the scientist in charge of the USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory said on a conference call of Wednesdays blast which shot projectiles from the crater.	He tried to reach his house on Tuesday but he and his neighbors were blocked by a 20 foot tall 6 meter tall wall of lava.	Evacuee David Nail was anxious to learn if his house had been destroyed.	The 57 year old who recently retired to the area from Orange County California said he had seen drone footage showing lava flowing up his driveway causing two propane tanks to explode.	PAHOA Hawaii Reuters A large explosion in Hawaiis Kilauea volcano on Wednesday may mark the beginning of more violent explosive eruptions that could spray rocks for miles kilometers and dust nearby towns in volcanic ash and smog the U.S. Geological Survey said.	False
When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	It's just unacceptable that a company like PG is making toilet paper a product that is used for seconds and flushed from virgin pulp said Shelley Vinyard boreal corporate campaign manager for the Natural Resources Defense Council and one of several dozen protesters at PG's annual shareholders meeting in Cincinnati Ohio on Tuesday.	It could potentially be a mix.	We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	Consumer goods giant Procter Gamble faces pressure from environmentalists to clean up its act.	True
And those two things are kind of in conflict.	So naturally there's been some hostility toward new sources of energy that could threaten that.	At the end of the day the debate in Wyoming is really about jobs.	It's a complicated history with wind says Jeremiah Rieman director of economic diversification strategy for Wyoming Gov.	Meanwhile conservationists and environmentalists have bristled at the rollback of regulations.	False
Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate related disease.	There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health.	And the situation is set to get even more acute as climate change increases the spread and frequency of infectious diseases such as malaria and dengue.	Human activity such as population growth and transport combined with climate change increases antibacterial resistance... and therefore the need for more pharmaceuticals.	The Organisation for Economic Co operation and Development OECD compared data on concentrations of pharmaceutical residue in water samples worldwide as well as prescribing trends and water purification regulations in various countries.	True
This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	The loss for the administration means it now faces a high profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge.	The administration has said a courtroom is not the appropriate venue for a debate on climate change policy.	This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers.	True
Rob Bishop the top Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee said on the House floor before the vote.	Related Green New Deal What is it and what does it mean for climate change?	Years in the crafting the measurecombines more than 100 separate bills that collectively would designate1340000 acres of new wilderness 367 miles of new scenic rivers and 2600 miles of new national trails.	But it also enjoyed larger buy in.	Related Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect The very basis of all of the bills that are in here is to put people above government Utah Rep.	True
Even though we're the ones who have been pointing to these potential scenarios for problems with other countries we seem to be the biggest problem Light says.	The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil.	This isn't the first time the U.S. has reneged on an international climate agreement.	In this case the U.S. became a signatory to the agreement but almost immediately signaled that it didn't intend to pursue its responsibilities.	We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world.	True
On one side of that debate is a theological argument thats gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade.	The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	But after receiving unanimous support by the board the 30 million member organization voted down the proposal kickstarting a campaign by fossil fuel interests to transform the doubt over global warming into what Splinter in a lengthy report published in August succinctly described as the word of God.	The former judge says he places Gods law above the Constitution describes Islam as a false religion and has repeatedly defied federal orders to remove religious ornaments from his courtroom.	told HuffPost.	True
Instead they both said the focus should be on resiliency.	Trump dismisses climate change question by contradicting himself on hurricanes Other departments are also adopting the language replacement in some cases making unannounced changes and replacements to their websites and names of programs.	While Sullivan acknowledged that there's been an intentional shift of language at the department especially as the topic of climate change continues to be discussed or avoided hand in hand with storm preparedness he argues that at the end of the day the administration has the same goals for rebuilding communities.	We could tie this to climate change or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money.	But administration officials counter that resiliency can have a dual meaning even one that means essentially the same thing but without the overt climate change undertones.	True
University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. pointed out problems with the study on Twitter Saturday including the fact it was funded by groups connected with Bloomberg and Steyer.	But even the United Nations worst case scenario called RCP8.5 is being called into question by experts.	The oft repeated claim also stemmed from a global warming projection thats come under increased scrutiny from experts including one who called it outlandish.	Andrew Light a distinguished senior fellow at the World Resources Institute and reviewer of the chapter highlighting the Bloomberg Steyer funded study did not respond to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment.	Global Change Research Program USGCRP which is responsible for producing the NCA.	True
How did the resistance get to this point?	How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy.	Its embarrassing.	But he doesnt care because in his mind its real.	Its hard not to look at this hyperactive Gen X er and think this is exactly what the far left has become a group that has rarely experienced hardship in their lifetime because of the greatest generation comparing everything they find upsetting to the greatest generation.	False
Farmers will face extremely tough times.	In Houston communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause.	The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities Easterling said.	Dependable and safe water for the Hawaii the Caribbean and others are threatened by these rising temperatures.	Almost half that rise has been since 1993 a rate of rise greater than during any century in the past 2800 years.	True
Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP industry lawsuit against it.	Since that time the rule has been mired in court challenges and it produced the first instance in history where the Supreme Court presumed a rule was unreasonable before a lower court ruled on the issue The Supreme Court dealt a blow to President Obamas signature climate change initiative Tuesday by halting the administrations effort to reduce pollution from coal fired power plants while a legal battle rages on.	The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years.	That likely would push the battle into 2017 or beyond.	Oral arguments are set for early June.	True
Its a climate crisisThat is why I support a Green New Deal.	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	We cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisianas Cancer AlleyHarris said in a statement.	I dont even call it climate change she said.	It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate which is how to include low income and communities of colorthe frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate changein the legislative process.	True
Spewing.	You know we have a world right?	None Trump impeachment FAQ What you need to know	Right?	You talk about the carbon footprint fumes are spewing into the air.	True
However the study finds that no single solution will avert the dangers so a combined approach is needed.	Fast on the heels of the landmark report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC comes this new study on how food production and consumption impact major threats to the planet.	So when it comes to climate change the authors looked at what they called a flexitarian diet.	The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together.	Tackling food loss and waste will require measures across the entire food chain from storage and transport over food packaging and labelling to changes in legislation and business behaviour that promote zero waste supply chains said Fabrice de Clerck director of science at EAT who funded the study.	True
It is an international crisis.	This is the war we are facing.	On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	Members of the G7 Summit lets discuss this emergency first order in two days Meanwhile a spokesperson for the Elyse Palace said that in light of Brazils attitude these recent weeks Macron can only conclude that President Bolsonaro lied to him during the Osaka Summit in June where world leaders agreed on the urgent need to combat climate change pollution and environmental destruction.	These countries that send money here they dont send it out of charity he said.They send it with the aim of interfering with our sovereignty.	True
While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies its more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric whichonly serves to encourage people throughanxiety and panic.	In a hyper political environment pro climate change and anti climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters and the implementation ofstandardized response to these crises.	Instead of focusing on the apprehensionand divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters its more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together tohelp one another.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season as well asthe most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria which was said to cripple Dominica with widespread devastation en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States its important to maintainlevelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speakingtruth amidstapprehension.	Loris also disputedassertions that global warming supercharged these hurricanes which made them deadlier citing work by University of Washington climatologist Cliff Mass and former director of the National Hurricane Center Bill Read both of whom rejected this claim after conducting research into the phenomenon.	False
Ironically she failed because of left wing communist protesters in Chile Henderson was forced to make the flight last second because protests in Chile caused the U.N.s Cop25 climate summit to be moved to Madrid Spain.	From the Hill Greta Thunbergs plan for carbon free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up.	No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	The plan for zero emissions travel was subverted when Thunbergs yacht captain Nikki Henderson 26 flew to the United States from England burning roughly two or three tons of carbon CO2 in the process.	Greta Thunberg tried really hard to keep her zero emissions promise but it has collapsed like all hypocritical left wing plans because it was just too difficult.	True
And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	Yet his tune appeared to change after leaders in Europe said a major trade deal could be at risk and many on social media started calling for a boycott of Brazilian products.	That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non governmental organizations of starting the fires.	Protests took place in Brazil and across the world Friday and Saturday demanding that the Brazilian government take action.	Yet despite the new found sense of urgency some are skeptical that the involvement of the military would really be able to do much.	True
If WeWork employees want a burger while on business the money is coming out of their own pockets.	New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact even more than switching to a hybrid carWeWork co founder MiguelMcKelvey said in an email to staffers.	WeWork confirmed the policy change to both news outlets.	Employees wanting medical or religious exceptions can hash those out witha company policy team.	The company won't provide meat for events at its 400 locations eitherpart of an effort to reduceits environmental footprint.	True
This weeks conference drew attention to the huge risks involved.	That would break the slow moving agreement among many environmental groups that sound research in this field makes sense Keith said on the sidelines of the Climate Engineering Conference CEC in Berlin.	Keith also dismissed the view that climate engineers like himself were on a mission to prove that climate engineering worked at all costs or else see the importance of decades of their lifes work evaporate.	David Keith a solar geoengineering GE expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	But scientists such as Keith and Mark Lawrence scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies IASS in Potsdam argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less almost impossible to achieve the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster.	True
On a broader note Im confused.	Weird how everything just so happens to reinforce her political narrative and now shes back with another hot take.	It was because the infrastructure is falling apart.	But making sense isnt a tenant of the climate religion.	The citys communist Mayor Bill de Blasio has run it into the ground with stupid financial decisions and misuse of funds.	True
This report is striking for two reasons.	And secondly it majors on the economic impact in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation.	Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today the 4th National Climate Assessment says.	The warning is at odds with the Trump administration's fossil fuels agenda.	Spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said it was largely based on the most extreme scenario which contradicts long established trends by assuming that... there would be limited technology and innovation and a rapidly expanding population.	False
Trudeau and Trump exchanged words over the phone on Thursday night when the prime minister expressed his disappointment with the presidents decision according to a news release from the Prime Ministers Office.	Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his climate change minister Catherine McKenna are both disappointed over President Donald Trumps decision to break with the Paris climate accord.	We want to be there we want to be providing solutions for the world.	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come.	Despite the lofty objectives when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers.	True
Yet two years later the company is still battling environmentalists and regulators in the state as the utility seeks to pass the cleanup costs onto ratepayers in the form of a price hike.	Gutting the EPAs rules on coal ash pollution takes some pressure off the utilities but thrusts the industry back into the sort of regulatory uncertainty Pruitt vowed to alleviate.	In a separate legal fight over coal ash the Tennessee Valley Authority the nations biggest public utility last month appealed a federal judges order to clean up decades of coal ash environmentalists say poisoned water in the Volunteer State.	Scrapping the only federal rules on coal ash presents a major problem in the face of storms floods and other extreme weather made more frequent and intense by climate change.	In 2014 Duke Energy one of the countrys biggest power companies spilled nearly 39000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River causing one of North Carolinas biggest environmental disasters in its history.	True
What have we done?	She also said she was unsatisfied with Bidens refusal to bend his 2050 goal.	And the fact of the matter is that what we talk about is what are we going to do about those corporations?	Biden recently came under fire for attending a fundraiser hosted by Andrew Goldman a founder of the natural gas company Western LNG.	And everywhere along the way for example Ive argued and pushed for us suing those executives who are engaged in pollution those companies engaged in pollution he added.	False
Its not sustainable for Republicans through the leadership to say We just dont want to talk about this' Lott said.	The key here is the dividend back to the people former Sen. Trent Lott R MS who supports the young group told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit and we need climate policy that reflects that said Kiera OBrien 21 a senior at Harvard University who co founded the group.	We are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party OBrien said in the Reuters article.	The Thomson Reuters Foundation reported on the campaign which runs counter to the stance of the Republican Party and President Donald Trump that the issue is more about globalization than saving the planet Drawn from Republican groups on more than two dozen university campuses the Young Conservatives for Carbon Dividends called for laws to tax oil natural gas and coal producers of planet warming greenhouse gases.	False
The New Deal.	Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	Ocasio Cortez said at an event in New York City Monday night.	And what preceded World War II?	The freshman Democrat pointed to a Voxarticlewarning we have just 12 years to limit devastating global warming and a Guardianarticleclaiming we have 12 years to limit climate change catastrophe both articles were based on a United Nations report from October 2018.	True
This apparent change of heart followed legal action filed by green groups part of a cascade of courtroom standoffs that are starting to slow and even reverse the Trump administrations blitzkrieg of environmental regulations.	Ironically for Pruitt who has touted a back to basics approach rooted safely within the confines of the law this rapidly executed agenda has run into a thicket of legal problems causing the administration to admit defeat in several cases.	Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court.	They are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who dont want to follow the rules said Aaron Colangelo the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council.	They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law.	True
Theres peace time and theres global nuclear combat.	The media focused on global nuclear combat.	And in order to understand it quite frankly we have to work with you he said.	Its a job that comes with the sometimes conflicting tasks of preserving and protecting public lands and waters for future generations while also setting the policies that govern extracting natural resources from them.	The facts of the matter is observable data climate change is more toward the peace time he added comparing the document to international relations.	True
He repeatedly misrepresented his own agencys findings about a rule to gut an Obama era power plant regulation inflating the emissions cuts the new proposal would mandate.	It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPAs 15th administrator.	He even mixed up two of the most important climate science reports to come out in the last three months admitting he hadnt fully read the report co authored by researchers at his own agency.	That meeting ended as another photo showed with a hug between Perry and Murray.	Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D R.I. brought out some visual aids to question Wheeler further about his relationship with Murray including a poster sized printout of a photo leaked from a March 2017 meeting between Murray and Energy Secretary Rick Perry where the coal executive provided a detailed wish list of policies to the administration.	True
Violent crimeincluding dangerous gangs over crowded schools the appearance of diseases once vanquished from the western world escalating hospital costs and an overwhelming demand for government services!	The source illegal immigrants.	Asked about his comments and if he still holds his views Pendley said his views were being taken out of context and were irrelevant to his role at BLM.	Islam's war with America started just up the road in Greeley Colorado!	In other comments uncovered during a CNN KFile review of his social media activity writings and public appearances Pendley cited an anti Muslim figure to claim Islam was at war with the United States compared undocumented immigrants to cancer and blamed them for diseases.	True
You have this disconnect.	He is hurting them.	In an interview on MSNBC on Thursday former Secretary of State John Kerry said President Donald Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Accord puts America last is shameful and will hurt kids by worsening their asthma.	It is a shameful moment for the United States to have unilaterally walked away from an agreement which did not have one other country requiring us to do something Kerry told Andrea Mitchell.	Kerrys primary arguments that Trumps decision will hurt kids with asthma and damage the economy were incredibly misleading.	True
Local authorities struggled to respond as demonstrators resorted to violence and vandalism.	These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry.	The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work.	In actuality the protests were anything but peaceful as we reported at the time.	Such biased narratives have bedeviled the Dakota Access Pipeline from the beginning.	True
At the same time NRDC has relentlessly attacked the Trump administration Bishop and Westerman said in their letter to the group.	WRI opposed President Donald Trumps decision to leave the Paris accord in 2017 in a statement that also praised China for committing to the climate agreement.	Given WRIs close ties to the Chinese government its emphasis on cultivating contacts with various U.S. officials is particularly disconcerting in light of the government partnerships and environmental initiatives involving WRI during the Obama Administration they wrote.	RELATED NYT Suggests Global Warming Is To Blame For Roger Federers US Open Defeat Since President Trumps election WRI political activities have turned to influencing state and municipal governments the lawmakers wrote.	Lawmakers want to know if WRIs desire to maintain good relations with the Chinese is affecting the groups U.S. operations and advocacy effectively making it a foreign agent of the communist government.	True
When we look into the ocean we find that it's too warm and the ice sheet can't withstand the temperatures that are surrounding it in the sea he says.	But that has changed.	That could be a big deal he says for anybody who lives works and governs a coastal region.	Some of the estimates covered different proportions of the ice sheets some of them covered different time periods and all of them used different methods and so it became difficult for people who are not specialists to try to pick them apart says Shepherd.	This new data creates a much starker picture of the future than previous estimates.	True
RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed.	North Carolina Democratic Gov.	Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out thatFlorence formed over abnormally cool ocean waters then weakened over cooler waters the opposite of what forecasters expected.	With historic storms lashing our state we must combat climate change make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters.	Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings.	True
In the late 1990sa crusading attorneysued E.I.	Last May the EPA hosted anational leadership summiton PFAS but the agencys decision to bar reporters from attending sessions and one officials manhandling of an Associated Press reporter overshadowed the event.	du Pont de Nemours and Co. over a massive contamination in Parkersburg West Virginia that killed livestock and sickened and deformed many residents in the rural Appalachian community that surrounded the chemical companys plant.	That set off a chain reaction exposing local contaminations across the country including several in New York State.	After a years long legal battle DuPont divested its Chemours division and the companies reached a670 million agreementto settle 3550 personal injury lawsuits in February 2017.	True
Environmental issues have been a strong point for Newsom who last year said hewould use specific environmental laws in California to stop President Donald Trumps border wall from being built.	In an interview with the Flash Report this week Cox said water housing affordability and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle.	According to the poll which has a 3.4 margin of error 67 of Democrats 54 of independents and 33 of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Coxs views on environmental issues will impact how they vote.	Meanwhile the PPIC poll also found that likely voters see drought and water supply as the top environmental issue facing the state followed by air pollution a majority 58 support a water bond on the November ballot and noted that astrong majority of likely voters 69 say that the effects of global warming have already begun.	Chris Hayes of MSNBC recentlysaid networks mostly try to avoid discussing environmental issues related to the topic of climate change because almost without exception.	True
The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems.	This is fuelling climate change and compromising our attempts to feed a growing world population the authors will say.	All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	The warning will come from the awkwardly named IPBES the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans.	Governments have focused on climate change far more than they have focused on loss of biodiversity or land degradation.	True
Here's the issue Pruitt said.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget said climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	Both instead said the focus needs to be on preparedness and resiliency.	Several key administration officials have been on message this week declining to discuss the issue and how to address the causes of global warming and increased greenhouse gas emissions.	Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm Duke responded I you know the data I don't know what it particularly indicates.	True
Opposition to border adjustment a House GOP provision designed to raise revenue and help to offset major tax cuts threatens to delay or trip up efforts to pass reform.	Watch White House says no to VAT carbon tax	As we have said many times the President's team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the President's plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986.	The carbon tax would appear to clash with the priorities Trump has sought so far in his administration.	The White House did not immediately respond to CNBC's request to comment.	True
The Sussexes came under fire over the summer after taking a private flight to the home of singer Sir Elton John in Nice.	In September's edition of Vogue edited by Meghan the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature saying We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us and only us.	At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that.	Questions have been asked about the royal couple's use of private jets and their impact following their support of environmental causes.	True
I do not dispute any administration coming in with different policies but the challenge I think we're facing is they are really changing the rules of the road and not using sound science McCarthy said.	There is no serious debate climate change is a severe threat and we ignore science at our own peril.	Given its clear violation of the Clean Air Act I intend to sue the EPA over this Dirty Power rule and look forward to collaborating with other states and cities in taking action to protect all Americans from the increasingly disastrous impacts of climate change James said in a statement.	Connecticut is in close coordination with states across the nation and we are prepared to take legal action to block this measure the state's attorney general William Tong.	At a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing last week about the direction of the EPA former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy who finalized the Clean Power Plan under Obama said she believes the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule as well as other proposed rules the agency has made since Trump took office undermines the science and the law in how they're trying to roll back those rules.	True
The mayor said he had challenged the citys Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer Instead of saying all the reasons why not get to a reason as to why.	He made the decision despite the fact that top staffers have argued in recent months that the gas plants are critical to keeping the lights on in the city theTimes noted.	Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor at Large at Breitbart News.	It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	Environmentalists are also opposed to using one of those renewable sources hydroelectric power because of concerns about environmental damage caused by dams.	True
But on the other it could put candidates in a difficult position when pressed on the costs and impact on certain jobs and industries.	Our first step is to define the problem and define the scope of the solution Ocasio Cortez told reporters during a Thursday afternoon press conference for her newly introduced proposal which was quickly backed by Democratic presidential hopefuls Senators Kirsten Gillibrand Kamala Harris Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker.	The debate over Medicare for All has already shown the kinds of risks and rewards candidates face.	The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates.	It will make clear who is just using it as a buzzword and who is taking it seriously.	True
For years positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other.	On Wednesday conservatives leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans Stalinism or genocide.	Heather McGhee senior fellow at the progressive think tank Demos A decade of disputation is followed now by this incredible uptick of Republicans looking around for solutions former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. whose support for climate action led to his ouster in a primary challenge in 2010 said at the event where he was the lone Republican.	As her allies are readying primary challenges against Democrats who refuse to join the Green New Deals 100 co sponsors in Congress Ocasio Cortez said You dont necessarily have to replace everybody.	We have this idea that left ideas are moving and shaking inside the political atmosphere right now.	False
He admitted in a media environment that rewards sensationalism and factual manipulation the approach may seem a bit bland.	The question isnt why now its why havent we all agreed to do this sooner Sandberg added.	Were not going to win the internet by going out and saying everybody is doing it wrong its just a pricing story.	There is a difference between Trump the politician and Trump the investor Jared Sandberg senior executive editor in Bloombergs digital division told HuffPost.	The Rupert Murdoch owned newspapers hard line conservativismappears to have bled over from the opinion pages to the news section.	True
This is a worldwide issue and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India.	Jerry Brown.	5.	It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change.	CNN Candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination and most scientists say the climate crisis is the existential threat of our time while President Donald Trump once claimed it's a hoax cooked up by the Chinese.	True
Its a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU.	So theres a clear contrast between the right wing populists on the one hand and their leading opponents on the other.	This brand of populism poses a particular challenge for the effort against climate change.	The American and Brazilian leaders are particularly aggressive on the issue but theyre hardly alone among Western right wingers.	You cant propose an effective solution to a transnational problem through a narrowly nationalist framework and yet the nationalists are here attacking both climate policies in their own country and the very idea of global governance itself.	True
And while some might disagree with him on a policy approach to an issue which is what happened at the Montgomery County Town Hall he will continue to hold similar events for the remainder of the campaign.	shes heard shouting on video.	The 18 year old activist made a name for herself beyond the Keystone State last month when she questioned Republican gubernatorial nominee Scott Wagner at a town hall on what she said was his lack of action on climate change and donations he received from the fossil fuel industry.	Strauss said Sunrise Movement Downingtown has twice reached out to Joseph Hill Wolfs deputy campaign manager and political director to request a meeting but has yet to receive a response the Daily Record reported.	And why did Strauss win the internet that day?	True
What they found was Mar a Lago was already in serious trouble.	He has threatened to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord in which countries around the world pledged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to keep temperatures from rising past the critical 2C mark.	President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	True
An activist from the Sunrise Movement a liberal environmental group asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking.	Shes right.	He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying Thats the environmental injustice of racism that were dealing with.	Calling climate change an existential threat a phrase that is sure to come up several more times tonight Mr. Castro said his first move as president would be to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord.	Julin Castro the first 2020 Democratic presidential candidate at the CNN climate town hall set the tone early in the night by giving a shout out to Gov.	False
Christine Shearer is an analyst with the group CoalSwarm which tracks coal developments and she is scathing about the implications.	With Chinese workers and Serbian workers at the beginning we had some cultural problems but we have overcome them and there is now very good cooperation.	There is also a lot of noise.	Pera Markovic a lawyer with Cekor an environmental group is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area.	You cannot be a world leader in curbing air pollution and at the same time the world's biggest financier of overseas coal power plants the group's energy coordinator Ioana Ciuta told the BBC.	True
Thousands gathered in cities across the globe including London Berlin Tokyo and Washington DC to protest anthropogenic climate change and the purported lack of urgency to address it.	Several climate change activists in D.C. decried the U.S. for its role in contributing to climate change despite the fact that the U.S. has made great strides in reducing its carbon output seeing the largest decline in CO2 emissions in the world for 9th time this century in 2017.	Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday.	However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong.	We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added.	True
Late last month a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a European Climate Declaration to the Secretary General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change.	Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation.	The declarations signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day.	Climate science should be less political while climate policies should be more scientific the declaration stated.	There is no climate emergency.	True
I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here.	During the first round of the second Democratic presidential debate on Tuesday evening the 2020 hopefuls on the stage all agreed on the need to urgently address climate change but clashed over how to do it.	Are we part of the reason?	The climate is changing.	Perry said in a Squawk Box interview when pressed on what causes climate change.	True
She can be very confusing.	Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity.	No one wants to hear this or actually spend time understanding things Curry said.	The other side of her thinks were foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years.	The climate crisis is real yall Ocasio said on Instagram.	True
We have to think about the whole world.	Because weve got to be working on all fronts.	he asked.	Coasts face unbelievable change.	So heres what really scares me.	True
This is our issue Beverly said.	This is about social disruption Shepard said.	By fighting for the actual justice and livelihood of working people you are going to create the political energy to actually address climate change she said.	Were hit first and hit worst.	People of color have always been on the front line of this movement Alaina Beverly a former Obama White House urban affairs official who is now vice president for urban affairs at the University of Chicagos Office of Federal Relations in Washington said at the event.	False
OCASIO CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition I'm always going to choose the people of this country.	Watters asked.	During that appearance he indicated that he would have to make himself an opponent of the oil and gas industries'interests.	We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said.	When Ocasio Cortezresponded to O'Rourke's plan she said he didn't have an aggressive enough timeline.	True
The views are their own.	But we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good.	This line of attack however ignores the costs of inaction.	Thus if we want markets to produce more clean innovation we should reward innovators rather than penalize polluters in the hopes that doing so will indirectly induce them to produce innovation.	It is good economics.	True
This meeting in Madrid signals the start of a frantic 12 months of negotiations that will culminate in Glasgow with COP26 in November next year.	This conference of the parties or COP25 was due to be held in Chile but was cancelled by the government due to weeks of civil disturbances.	She added It's a fight to the death for anyone not prepared to flee.	The president of an island nation on the frontline of climate change says it is in a fight to the death after freak waves inundated the capital.	The situation has been made worse because the two strongest cyclones ever to hit the African continent affected the same region just weeks apart.	True
The Post also reported the sources claimed the carbon tax proposal is very controversial and that some within the administration are staunchly opposed to it.	Thats why I object to the Democrats as much as to the Republicans.	Opponents of the plan say its another form of socialistic wealth distribution that will dramatically raise energy costs.	According to the group which is led by former Secretaries of State James Baker III and George Shultz and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson their plan would tax fossil fuel companies and redistribute the funds back to Americans in equal portions thereby artificially raising the price of fossil fuels and making renewable energy sources more competitive.	Opponents say energy costs will increase not only because of the tax but also because energy companies will raise prices across the board knowing that all consumers have more money to spend thanks to carbon tax dividends.	True
We need systemic change.	While protests indeed broke out across the globe the protest in D.C. featured a funeral procession to draw attention to the crisis and show that business as usual can not continue.	Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate crisis on the biggest shopping day of the year disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago Illinois and holding a Black Friday Funeral For Future in the nations capital Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts.	Were bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death 17 year old organizer Maddie Graham said.	Well gather on the Southeast lawn of the Capitol to eulogize and mourn all that has been lost and all that is threatened by the climate crisis the events description reads.	True
Ten minutes into Griffiths opening speech he was interrupted by a sudden sustained loud volley of laughter by several dozen protesters that was then followed by a single shout of Its not funny and then a series of chants of Keep it in the ground and Shame on you.	After the protesters were led away by security guards Griffiths said In the US our policy is not to keep it in the ground but to use it as cleanly and efficiently as possible.	None of the panelists would be drawn on the study but Griffith spoke out against alarmism that he claimed displaced pragmatic solutions to address environmental concerns with prescriptive regulations that put jobs at risk and raised costs for consumers.	This was the second consecutive year that the Trump team was heckled after promoting fossil fuels and nuclear power at the climate talks underscoring how the US position has shifted since the president took power in 2017.	Made up of city and state level governments business executives and religious leaders the Were still in group is staging dozens of events in a bid to show action is still possible without White House support.	False
As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory.	But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors.	Conservative activists point out theres no deal to be made on trading federal environmental regulations for a carbon tax since Trumps already promised to roll back 75 percent of federal rules.	They argue its not very conservative to back what would essentially amount to a tax on energy which would effectively raise the price of all goods and services.	President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate.	False
But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red versus blue divide.	'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced' Pruitt said.	'Not the cause of it but the things that we observe.'	When Homeland Security Advisor Tom Bossert was asked as he preceded Huckabee Sanders in the briefing he wouldn't talk about climate change's cause.	On Sunday Sen. John McCain R Fla. who has preached bipartisanship in recent months on the heels of his cancer diagnosis told CNN's Jake Tapper that he didn't know why his Republican colleagues were denying climate change adding that it was 'time to sit down.'	True
Vivian Stockman of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition was protesting outside Trumps rally.	Meanwhile our people are being poisoned she said.	Our state is beholden to coal.	At his public announcement Trump said Im getting rid of some of these ridiculous rules and regulations which are killing our companies and our jobs.	Our politicians are beholden to coal.	False
It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains.	In May I experienced one hotel's efforts firsthand as I stood on the roof at ITC Maurya a hotel in Delhi.	As we use and reuse things it gives us some social engagement status.	This has really helped everybody throughout the food and beverage team and the organization as a whole just to think about what they are doing.	Some resorts are doing their part to address it even when governmental regulations and a general lack of awareness make that difficult.	False
It was only about past events.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event.	Theres no shortage of ideas about how this happens but its not quite clear how they all fit together.	True
Speaking at an eventcommemoratingMartin Luther King Day that monthOcasio Cortez asserted thatclimate change constituted our World War II and added Millennials and people you know Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and were like The world is gonna end in 12 years if we dont address climate change and your biggest issue is how are we gonna pay for it?'	On Twitter Monday Ocasio Cortez reposted a claim from one of her advisersRobert Hockett arguing that in this case size matters and that the problems the Green New Deal addresses require solutions where bigger is better imperative and paraodixcally more affordable.	And Paul Bledsoe a strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute said progressives were overcompensating.	In January White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders derided Ocasio Cortez'srecent claim that theworld will end in 12 yearsdue to climate change andsuggested the Trump administration has little need for the progressive firebrand'sthoughts in general.	Several other Democrats announced guests apparently intended to highlight their opposition to various Trump administration policies while Trump himself extended invites to the family of a couple allegedly murdered by an illegal immigrantand a child bullied at school for having the last name Trump.	True
For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.	HAZARD Ky. AP A coalition of left leaning states and environmental groups are vowing to fight the Trump administration's move to kill an Obama era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal fired power plants.	The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	Closely aligned with the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man made emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	True
If you have a view on what you want to happen well carry it out when you execute it.	Bernhardt who brought with him to the job a slew of potential conflicts of interest from his days as an energy lobbyist also faced tough questions Tuesday about alleged ethics violations.	But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials.	Rep. Betty McCollum D Minn. the subcommittees chair quoted from the U.N. report and told Bernhardt the country is depending on you to help lead the fight along with us to combat these issues including the biodiversity and climate crises.	The hearing was the first of two appearances Bernhardt has before Congress this week to defend the Trump administrations 2020 budget request which calls for a 14 cut in funding for the Department of the Interior.	True
The administration moves to rescind California's authority are likely to prompt legal battles.	That's a false choice and it's one that you've talked about Mr. President.	The purpose of this letter is to put California on notice that this framework agreement appears to be inconsistent with federal law the letter said.	When President George W. Bush challenged California's greenhouse gas emissions and mileage setting ability California fought it in the courts.	The Trump administration is challenging California over the state's new automotive emissions and fuel economy framework agreement with automakers insisting setting such standards is the federal government's role.	True
The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed.	If Paris streets burned over a proposed25 cents per gallon climate change tax imagine the global conflagration over a 49 per gallon tax.	Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers.	Why?	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	True
Joel Clement who resigned from the interior department because he said the administration was muzzling scientists and ignoring climate change effects on vulnerable communities now works with the Union of Concerned Scientists.	And that has changed Graumlich said.	Several other high profile climate advocates were invited by other Democrats protesting against Trumps doubts of the science and his rollbacks.	The Trump administrations strategy is to ignore climate change and pretend it doesnt exist and pretend the science doesnt exist even if its coming from its own agencies Clement said.	Lisa Graumlich the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal.	True
Instead there is an administration wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether.	I think that measuring with precision human activity on the climate is something very challenging to do and there's tremendous disagreement about the degree of impact Pruitt said in a CNBC interview in March .	Washington CNN President Donald Trump spent an hour Thursday talking about his commitment to economic growth and national stability as he announced the decision to back out of the Paris Climate Accord.	They are complaining about uncertainty but at the same time increasing uncertainty by cutting back on ways to measure climate change.	For many the administration's reluctance to deal with the idea of climate change comes down to one thought that economic growth and climate awareness cannot go hand in hand.	True
With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign.	EPA administrator Scott Pruitt hastaken many steps to roll back or put in loopholes to the Clean Air Act Alexander said adding thattheassociation is concerned and we will continueto fight forhealthy air she said.	Forget the Golden State.	For year round particle pollution Fairbanks Alaska was the most polluted city.	True
Diversity takes millions of years to evolve but can be damaged in the blink of an eye.	Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda.	Changes in ecology may go some way to explain the often strongly asymmetrical fates of sister clades and we test this in the caridean shrimps.	But global warming and rising sea levels threatened to wipe out many species that cannot adapt to change quickly enough in a blink of an eye.	Creatures that have moved into delicate ecosystems such as coral reefs often live in symbiosis with others and are the slowest to recover their diversity if damaged.	False
My action today will cut through the destructive permitting and denials Trump said during the signing of the executive orders at the International Union of Operating Engineers International Training and Education Center a union run facility in Crosby Texas.	While the move was greeted warmly by members of the countrys oil and gas industries it is likely to rankle some more traditional conservative lawmakers including several Republican governors worried about the federal government impinging on individual state rights and governance.	The White House has sought to stave off any discord by arguing that the order is not meant to take power away from the states but to ensure that state actions follow the intent of the Clean Water Act.	Environmental groups described Trump's order as an effort to short circuit a state's ability to review complicated projects putting at risk a state's ability to protect drinking water supplies and wildlife.	The groups said in an April 5 letter that individual states shouldn't be able to use provisions of the Clear Air Act to dictate national policy thereby harming other states and the national interest and damaging cooperative federalism.	False
And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said .	Asked whether he thought climate change was a threat to Florida DeSantis said the issue was politicized but noted that he considers sea level rise a serious threat.	We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	We're going to do what works.	As one of Florida's leading environmental researchers Dr. Frazer understands the unique water issues facing our state and the actions we must take to solve them he said Monday.	False
The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	When the threat arose yesterday people were still doing their activities on the beach and did not immediately run and they became victims he told a news briefing.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque among the buildings damaged.	Indonesia's meteorological agency has been criticised for its response but officials said the waves struck while the warning was in place.	The main road to Palu has been blocked due to a landslide and a key bridge is out of action.	False
WildEarth Guardians Physicians for Social Responsibility and the Western Environmental Law Center sued the BLM in 2016 for failing to calculate and limit the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from future oil and gas projects.	The Western Energy Alliance one of the defendants in the case also did not respond to a request.	The decision stems from an environmental lawsuit.	The decision is the first significant check on the climate impact of the Trump administrations energy first agenda that has opened up vast swaths of public land for mining and drilling.	The judge is basically asking BLM to take a wild guess on how many wells will be developed on leases prematurely.	False
They say the president favours development over conservation.	Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?	But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	The rainforest lost 9762 sq km 3769 sq miles of its vegetation between August 2018 and July 2019 Inpe says.	False
However environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement.	In March he told an energy industry conference Interior should not be in the business of being an adversary.	One place weve seen Zinke pick sides is in his response to Californias record wildfires.	He told the conference over lunch our government should work for you according to organizers You can debate what Zinke meant by work for you but many heard it as a pledge of allegiance to the industry.	He was involved in a land deal with the chair of Halliburton which may have violated conflict of interest rules.	False
Activists freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of Californias deadliest wildfire seem primed for action and the partys progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue thats remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade.	Last week youth activists with the grassroots climate group Sunrise Movement staged sit ins in the offices of House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi D Calif. and Rep. Frank Pallone D N.J. the likely next chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee who opposed the creation of a select committee on a Green New Deal.	Seventy one percent of major televised debates in the 2018 midterm elections ignored the issue completely.	We need millions of people all over this country to stand up and demand fundamental changes in our energy policy in order to protect our kids and our grandchildren and the planet Sanders told HuffPost by phone.	If you think of Bernie youd think hed be talking about inequality or civil rights.	False
Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	A coalition of local environmental groups organized the march to the Arsht Center in Miami where this round of debates is being held with marchers sporting signs calling for a specific climate change debate and pushing for the Green New Deal.	This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off dozens of local activists in Miami Florida held an Underwater Climate Rally calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate.	Melissa Baldwin co organizer of Miami Climate Month which organized the rally says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami they wanted to put a spotlight on climate change because you cant come to Miami without talking about climate change.	False
By withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement to double down on a coal fossil fuel energy agenda Trump has engaged in a unilateral disarmament in the economic arms race that is the transition to clean energy said Michael Mann a climate scientist and professor at Penn State University.	GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS' Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions Sen. Jim Inhofe R Okla. said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016.	President Trump made the decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement because of the unfair economic burden imposed on American workers businesses and taxpayers by U.S. pledges made under the Agreement Pompeo said in a statement.	Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the worlds largest carbon emitter China is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal fired power plant online every 10 days.	The challenge of averting dangerous and irreversible climate change and massive coastal inundation devastating floods and droughts is that much more an uphill climb with Trump's pullout from the Paris agreement.	False
Once again Pruitt took the question as an opportunity to criticize the Obama administration saying that in the past there has been a lack of commitment to state partnership.	Watch the interview below via YouTube.	Pruitt was pretty steadfast in his position then however on Sunday he was forced to entertain the possibility that he might be wrong during an interview with Fox Newss Chris Wallace.	And the question I have is what if youre wrong?	Realizing that he wasnt going to get anywhere with Pruitt on that particular issue Wallace switched gears slightly to ask a final question about the Trump administrations proposed cuts to the EPA.	False
The resolution does not include a price tag but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars.	A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday the day they introduce the resolution.	Trump who has expressed doubts about climate change also is likely to oppose it.	She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing.	A joint resolution drafted by Ocasio Cortez and Markey sets a goal to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean renewable and zero emission energy sources including dramatic increases in wind and solar power.	False
The town hall featured people across the country who challenged Gore on the issue or asked his thoughts.	I'm just not seeing it.	But Gore's and Ivanka's influence clearly was not enough.	Gore declined to get into the details of his private conversations with Trump but said those conversations had left him with reason to believe Trump would keep the United States in the agreement but added that thankfully his worst fears about the withdrawal were not realized.	Tangier Island gained national prominence after Trump called Eskridge in response to a CNN piece on the town.	False
Whether those claims should be handled in court presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion the court said then.	The Justice Departmentobjected to the time and expense claiming that the issue was one for Congress not the courts to resolve.	Its objections were first raised during the Obama administration.	This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Solicitor General Noel Francisco argued in court papers.	The justices had expressedmisgivings about the lawsuitin July when they refused to stop the legal process but said the breadthof theclaims was striking.	False
Were up against the wire and nobody no politician no agency no industry is stepping up to resolve the climate crisis Mike one of the protesters locked to a flower pot said in a statement.	The protesters were blocking a BNSF train carrying Bakken Crude Oil a highly volatile oil that caused a train to explode in Mosier Oregon last June.	Its time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time.	Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	Protesters locked their arms into large sunflower pots and laid down on train tracks calling on Washington Governor Jay Inslee D to reject the proposed Vancouver Tesoro Savage Oil Terminal and all other proposed fossil fuel infrastructure in the State of Washington the group said in a press release.	False
The studies clash with policy under President Donald Trump who has been rolling back Obama era environmental and climate protections to maximize production of domestic fossil fuels including crude oil already the highest in the world above Saudi Arabia and Russia.	It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor broadly undermine human health damage infrastructure limit the availability of water alter coastlines and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production.	Trump and several members of his cabinet have also repeatedly cast doubt on the science of climate change arguing the causes and impacts are not yet settled.	Trump last year announced his intention to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris Deal agreed by nearly 200 nations to combat climate change arguing the accord would hurt the U.S. economy and provide little tangible environmental benefit.	White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters did not immediately respond to a request for comment.	False
Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers.	The resolution calls for aWorld War II style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Certainly environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of peoples diets in the name of the climate but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health.	False
The recent personnel shake up across the federal government doesnt bode well for the fight against climate change either.	And some government research grant applications faced extra scrutiny and rejection for mentioning the double C word.	President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases the Clean Power Plan.	Now it looks like were condemned to repeat it.	Its not just rhetoric.	False
The shift from 'future problem'to 'now crisis'is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real world catastrophes.	Reluctant to cross Trump they barely discuss the issue these dayscompared to three years ago according to an analysis of press releases floor statements tweetsand Facebook posts by software firm Quorom.	I think we'll be at a stalemate for the next two years.	Neither alone is going to get it done.	That's a one two punch we need to solve the climate crisis said Conrad Schneider advocacy Director for the Clean Air Task Force a nonprofit organization pushing for carbon emission reduction.	False
ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval.	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	Trump has also begun considering whether or not to completely pull out of the agreement.	Trumps Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt has urged the president to exit the agreement and at least one climate scientist Dr. Duane Thresher has warned Trump not to cave in to his daughters climate change madness.	According to the ETC website the groups goal is to accelerate change towards low carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius.	False
I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America.	Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate crisis America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles California.	I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued.	False
Its not just the future of the planet thats at stake here.	Which means that the White Houses move to repeal the Clean Power Plan is a one two punch to human health and the environment said Georges Benjamin executive director of the American Public Health Association.	For the White House bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters.	But whats largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact peoples health.	Health isnt a big part of the conversation about Trump administration assault on climate change mitigation policies but it needs to be.	False
At that point coal was becoming an unprofitable investment and banks faced mounting pressure from environmentalists to stop supporting the dirtiest fuels in the lead up the Paris climate agreement.	Even though were going to have this policy in place doesnt mean at the same time well right away cut all the clients that dont fall under it Mylene Benmoussa a BNP Paribas spokeswoman told HuffPost by phone on Wednesday.	In June three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800000 people.	The trio includes the San Francisco based Rainforest Action Network the French chapter of Friends of Earth and Save the Rio Grande Valley from Liquefied Natural Gas a local Texas group protesting the construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal in the states southern region.	In 2015 the company was ordered to pay 8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan Cuba and Iran.	False
Trumpcampaigned on a promise to withdraw the U.S.from the accord saying it would lead to higher energy prices and hurt domesticbusinesses from being able to compete globally.	California Gov.	Withdrawal from the agreement marks a critical step in unraveling former President Obamas destructive legacy Needham said.	We're on the field ready for battle and while our president may be AWOL in the battle against climate change we're not.	Were moving forward.	False
Politics is downstream from culture is an aphorism the late conservative iconoclast Andrew Breitbart was famous for coining He believed that in the end the people who win elections are the ones telling the best stories and controlling the narrative on any issue.	In a CNN interview last month Ruffalo directly linked the issues around PFAS to alleged attempts by government to hide science surrounding fossil fuels not to mention Exxon and climate change.	The Exxon case shows that the agenda of the left wing groups behind Dark Waters is a moving target one always guided by the trial lawyers laser like focus on the deepest pocketbook.	A clear giveaway is that the movie begins with the disclaimer inspired by true events rather than the more commonly used based on a true story.	The case dragged on for years until DuPont and Chemours Company which spun off from DuPont settled some 3500 injury lawsuits for a total of 671 million.	False
Put together Pruitt's moves some of which have been challenged in court represent an attempt to fundamentally restructure the EPA's role in Washington and are a sharp rebuke of the environmental legacy of former President Barack Obama.	Pushing to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord Pruitt pushed the White House to leave the Paris climate deal stood beside the President in the Rose Garden when he announced the decision and after the President spoke offered his own remarks.	The move was condemned by global leaders and was seen by many as a setback to efforts to address global warming.	The weakening of automobile standards which is a win for car manufacturers and a blow to environmentalists also sets up a fight between the Trump administration and the state of California which says it plans to stick with the stricter rules.	Here are some of Pruitt's key changes Like others in the Trump administration Pruitt has repeatedly highlighted uncertainty about the role that humans have played in global warming a view that is at odds with the vast majority of scientific evidence.	False
One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use.	He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation.	In response to a question from Priya Subberwal a New York University student Mr. ORourke made clear that he prefers cap and trade over a straight tax on carbon.	I reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon he said.	Mr. ORourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas.	False
On Earth Day thousands of scientists students and research advocatesmarched around the world in protest of Trump's research budget cuts.	In a flurry of other tweets he criticized President Obama for prioritizing the environment over other issues such as 'ISIS and Ebola.'	By comparison last year President Obama's message in 2016 took on an urgent tone and said 'Human activity is disrupting the climate and the challenge of combating climate change is one that will define the contours of our time.'	Our work is not done.'	This point was reiterated later in a somewhat defensive tweet.	False
In 2016 Mr. Schneiderman and the Securities and Exchange Commission announced a 154 million settlement with Barclays and Credit Suisse to resolve allegations that the banks had permitted traders to misuse their dark pool platforms.	Mr. Schneiderman over the past year has positioned himself at the vanguard of legal challenges by state attorneys general to the Trump administrations efforts to roll back regulation especially environmental rules.	for failing to properly control methane pollution a greenhouse gas.	His legal team was one of the first in the nation to target banks for sponsoring nontransparent trading platforms called dark pools which allowed high speed trading firms to take advantage of investors.	Last month he and more than a dozen states sued the E.P.A.	False
Questions posed to candidates on Wednesday varied and not all were asked about public land and conservation.	During CNNs marathon town hall on climate change Wednesday candidates vowed to end oil gas and coal leasing on federal land as part of a shared goal to decarbonizing the economy and prevent catastrophic warming.	We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday.	Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps.	Ive connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change.	False
Pitting important environmental goals against working families who rely on affordable American energy is a false choice the organization said.	OCASIO CORTEZ 'THERE'S NO DEBATE' THAT FOSSIL FUEL PRODUCTION SHOULD STOP We are going to end the greed of the fossil fuel industry and move to 100 renewable energy he tweeted in an attack on natural gas.	That turned into a federal lawsuit alleging the oil giant defrauded its shareholders with its messaging on climate change.Schneiderman resigned in 2018 amid allegations of physical abuse but legal battles continued to swirl around the company.	His comments were the latest in progressive politicians'long line of attacks on big corporations and their role in climate change.	The American Petroleum Institute a trade association for the oil and gas industry responded to Sanders in a statement to Fox News.	False
Or so it has been for thousands of years.	another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter who led the research project.	Dr. Matt Amesbury also of the University of Exeter said there were two main findings to take from their new study scale and temperature sensitivity Before now studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites weve been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula.	surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.	A Green Island moss bank with icebergs.Credit Matt Amesbury Antarctica is a cold white continent at the bottom of the world.	False
Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	But look I dont want to debate global warming because a its boring to me b you get screamed at by people who act like we have seconds to act before the world ends and c you or at least I also get screamed at by people who insist its all a complete hoax.	Etc.	not believing in science because recent hurricanes have been bad and climate change is causing it and blah blah blah.	People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs people who deny that a fetus is a whole human people who insist fetal pain is a myth people who get outraged by claims that say men cant get pregnant.	False
'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket and you make them put it back in they're not going to be happy.	I happen to disagree strongly with him on this particular issue.'	It was about U.S. money going to other countries.'	And that's what's happening here' he said.	There's no reason to make one agreement connect with another' Ross said using the Trans Pacific Partnership as Exhibit A.	False
Theyre trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used.	Youre right there could very well be a new generation coming up saying thats the only environmental issue and its not he said.	Yes climate is an issue and we are working to address it but I think water is a bigger issue he said.	He also said that California is playing politics in its fight with the EPA to preserve its more stringent vehicle emission standards as the national standard.	Wheeler said he believes climate change is a problem but that it had been overblown by former President Barack Obamas administration at the expense of other bigger issues like water quality.	False
The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell.	Curbelo is one of thefounders of the Climate Solutions Caucus a bipartisangroup in Congress ostensibly committedto fighting global warming but restricted in practice by the reliance ofits 45 Republicanmembers on support from oil and gas firms.	While he broke ranks this summer to express his support for a carbon tax as a possible way to combat climate change more than 30 of Curbelos Republican colleagues on the caucus supported a symbolic measure that disavowed a carbon tax.	Last December he joined caucus members in a budget vote that would have openedup 1.5 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas drillingMother Jonesreported at the time.	In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money.	False
However there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers.	Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes?	Blowing from east to west across Africa the winds form clusters of thunderstorms once the waves of air have enough moisture lift and instability.	This is when atmospheric conditions are only marginally conducive if at all for tropical storm formation.	Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Andrew began life as tropical waves off the coast of west Africa.	False
What does this all mean for humanity?	Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power medical care to stay healthy enough income to feed their kids education for the children so they can fulfill their potential.	But he cautions against concluding that there's simply no way for everyone to enjoy a decent life without destroying the planet.	The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage in other words using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it.	Unfortunately we really didn't find that says O'Neill.	False
Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts.	While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement.	The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer familythe billionaire megadonors whogave more than 15 million to Trumps 2016 campaign.	News of Happers departure comes one day after the resignation of his boss national security adviser John Bolton.	False
Nothing.	Their answers and reactions to them foreshadowed the fight ahead with conservatives and industry regardless of who becomes the next president.	The event was perhaps the longest stretch of primetime television ever dedicated to climate change held after the Democratic National Committee refused to sanction an official climate debate between candidates and amid unprecedented pressure from young activists and the Democratic voting base to tackle the climate crisis.	Democrats vying for president revealed a fundamental split over how aggressively the US should tackle climate change in a seven hour town hall meeting on Wednesday.	With many questions focused on what candidates would ask Americans to sacrifice Elizabeth Warren pushed back on the framing.	False
Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget told CNN that climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese.	Trump's comments Thursday go against the hyperbolic language he used in the lead up and aftermath of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma.	Top Trump administration officials have repeatedly dodged questions about how climate change affected the damage done by hurricanes Harvey and Irma saying the issue should be discussed at a later date.	And both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering when asked Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of the storms.	False
A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some.	It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.	Under this scenario meeting a 2C limit would be harder than anticipated.	Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary.	False
Who loses out?	Published with permission of The American Independent.	In one instance about research on rice the agency tried to dissuade a research partner the University of Washington from publicly discussing research.	The intent is to try to suppress a message in this case the increasing danger of human caused climate change said Michael Mann a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University.	In May career government economists accused Perdue and his agency of retaliating against them for their reports showing that Trump's tax and farm subsidy policies are hurting the very rural voters he promised to help.	False
Each individual has values good and bad and they often remain in tension with one another.	What makes radical environmentalism and its private jet flying propagators so toxic a cultural beast is how high on its adherents totem pole they are willing to place environmental concerns often over some of the most elemental human needs and desires.	What is most remarkable is the pieces bizarre stance on this debate Petersons primary concern appears to be getting rid of Grandma with as small of a carbon footprint as possible rather than reverence intergenerational remembrance or even concern for the grieving.	When Mary Magdalene anoints Christ with perfumes and oil as a pre burial ritual on a night leading up to His execution a livid Judas berates her gesture protesting that the money used to buy the perfume could have been spent on the poor.	That statement not only describes Judass moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern holy as it may be poverty reduction environmental protection or any other earthly mission that does not give a preferential deference to God His creation and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities.	False
While the bill has little chance of passing it is intended to spark a debate over carbon pricing as the Democratic Party prepares to take over the lower chamber of Congress.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Much like the new bipartisan bill Curbelos was doomed to fail from the beginning and he endured attack ads from the right for even introducing it.	RELATED A Growing Number Of Democrats Are Signing On To Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal Republicans Fitzpatrick and Rooney both members of the Climate Solutions Caucus survived their re elections and both will continue to work with Democrats on various climate change bills in the next legislative session.	False
NRDC and other environmental groups were already locked in legal battles to keep the power plant rule from being overturned.	Theyare living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office namely to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies.	The same day Earthjustice and the Center for Biological Diversity CBD filed suits to challenge the administration.	CBD famously sued the Department of Homeland Security DHS to stop the construction of a wall on the U.S. Mexico border.	The group filed at least two lawsuits in April challenging Trumps delaying energy efficiency standards for appliances and the administrations refusal to ban certain pesticides.	False
To Janet this is a moral issue.	Lets take a closer look at this.	So from that July day in 2008 Jordan waged his own war on the environment Voting to bar greenhouse gasses from Clean Air Act rules voting against enforcing limits on carbon dioxide global warming pollution against tax incentives for renewable electricity and energy conservation against curtailing subsidies for oil and gas company exploration but voting in favor of opening the Outer Continental Shelf to oil drilling.	I then reflected upon Anderson Coopers infamous April 17 2018 CNN interview of Jim Jordan.	These were matters that we have historically agreed on if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildrens future.	False
So whats actually in it?	The deal shall ensure a just transition for all workers low income communities communities of color indigenous communities rural and urban communities and the front line communities most affected by climate change pollution and other environmental harm including by ensuring that local implementation of the transition is led from the community level.	Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	Its scope and mandate for legislative authority amounts to a radical grant of power to Washington over Americans lives homes businesses travel banking and more.	Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	False
Its a challenging issue.	Its bloody combat.	But as Newsoms term in Sacramento approaches its fifth month many of these groups are losing patience as the governor tries to balance a clean energy agenda with the demands of an industry that supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in a state with around 26 million vehicles on the road.	Im taking a very pragmatic look at it in scoping this Newsom told The Los Angeles Times recently.	But at what cost is this being done especially when nobody else is doing anything.	False
The right wing populist Bolsonaro who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazonhome to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so peoplecame to power in January.	Last monththe far right president accused Inpes director of lying about the scale of deforestationin the Amazon and trying to undermine the government.	The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right wing President Jair Bolsonaros environmental policies that dont give much thought to the environment at all.	The Amazon is burning at an alarming rate in Brazil with 72843 fires detected so far this year by the countrys space research center INPE.	Now I am Nero setting the Amazon aflame he said.	False
Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence.	This is total nonsense.	Either way you should stick to what the best available science says not the fear mongering of anti conservative zealots.	As Roy Spencer Ph.D. an acclaimed climate scientist who previously worked for NASA recently stated The fact that there has been no long term change in global hurricane activity and even a 50 percent decrease in U.S. landfalling major hurricanes over the last 80 years means no one is complicit in these storms.	False
Okay.	Okay.	Okay?	This week Bernie met Britta.	Britta is concerned about climate change in particular you nasty vile carnivores out there.	False
